you have this ability to become
confident in every single area of your
life it's about us just learning a new
series of behaviors for example there's
something called a siren technique in
three two and one Nas are crazier than
usual fantastic that's fantastic you did
a great job right and then this next one
is volume so critical because if I just
increase my volume and I talk like this
I sound a little bit aggressive don't I
but with volume to highlight something
you could go very quiet so it's about
waking people up to the power of their
voice and we all have access to these
talks let's go through all five Vin J is
the award-winning speaker and
communication expert who helps people
harness the power of their voice and
body language in all areas of their life
just so overwhelming of how many people
are suffering with not being able to
communicate they're asking I'm
introverted does that mean that I'm
doomed how do I become more confident
how do I speak on the spot and we think
there's no way for me to ever change in
this it's super sad because I lived a
massive part of my life like that I was
the awkward kid I couldn't communicate
with anyone I moved school so many times
because I was bullied then I broke them
all and then I just learned all these
new behaviors has completely changed and
anyone can do this in 3 to 6 months and
I'm going to teach you so the first
thing that really matters is a
three-step process I call it record and
review it's going to dramatically change
the way you talk and the way you show up
but how do we start a conversation with
another human being I've got a simple
game called high buff and it gives you
three opportunities for a conversation
to spark and we'll play it in a second
and then there's hand gestures to level
up your physical presence and then a
simple framework that helps build
connection there's so many other things
we can talk about and we're going to go
through them but some people do have
severe social anxiety what you say to
those people the first thing I would do
is
[Music]
is this has always blown my mind a
little bit 53% of you that listen to
this show regularly haven't yet
subscribed to the show so could I ask
you for a favor before we start if you
like the show and you like what we do
here and you want to support us the free
simple way that you can do just that is
by hitting the Subscribe button and my
commitment to you is if you do that then
I'll do everything in my power me and my
team to make sure that this show is
better for you every single week we'll
listen to your feedback we'll find the
guests that you want me to speak to and
we'll continue to do what we do thank
you so
[Music]
much Finn if you had to
summarize what it is you do
fundamentally and why you do it how
would you summarize it I help people
learn that they have access to one of
the most beautiful instruments in the
world that can help them negotiate
whatever reality they
desire and I learned this through my
first ever vocal teacher Miss Stanley
and I'll I'll never foret get this
experience there's a dingy music Corner
um in South Australia and I would go
there for lessons and at the first time
I met her I walked into the room she's
old lady and she says nothing to me
except the words sit down young man so I
sit it feels super awkward it feels
super weird and then she plays one key
non-stop on the piano for 2 minutes it's
literally I was like oh [__] this is
like something out of a horror movie and
then she turns around she goes how do
you feel I said nothing weird awkward
what and then she goes good turns around
plays this beautiful song called marage
diamore goes over for 2 minutes and then
she turns away she goes how do you feel
and I said ah weirded out from before
still but I feel wow that song had love
there was lust there was romance there
was excitement the and she goes good
honey most people most people go through
life speaking like this I'm going to
teach you how to speak like this
and that's to me at the time I remember
thinking to myself that is the greatest
sales pitch I've ever heard in my life
because I'm now going to sign up for 12
classes with you because you've just
helped me realize something I've been
struggling with my entire life I haven't
been thinking about my voice as an
instrument I thought it was a tool what
do you do with a hammer you use a hammer
what do you do with a screwdriver you
use a screwdriver what do you do with
the piano you play with it what do you
do with the violin you play with it and
she started to teach me that I have this
instrument that depending on how I play
it it changes and shift how others feel
how much do you think that will change
the trajectory of someone's life like
what is the impact if I get really good
at communication why does it matter I
was invisible my entire childhood I was
invisible I wasn't the cool kid I wasn't
the good-looking kid I wasn't the
charismatic kid I wasn't the funny kid I
wasn't the anything kid and by learning
this skill I've been able to negotiate
an incredible reality and that's why I
love Tim Ferris is quite so much reality
is negotiable cool well what skill do we
use to negotiate the reality we desire
it's our ability to
communicate teaching that to others has
been one of the most fulfilling things
I've ever
done and I I genuinely believe that
makes the world a better
place and I almost sometimes feel like
I'm just here to tune pianos I'm here to
help people tune and fix and learn how
to
play and and and I get so much
fulfillment from that my parents have
this fundamental belief it's so
beautiful they believe every child is
born with a diamond with a gift with a
with something in them so I found one of
my diamonds early on it was magic right
so I was really good at Magic they hoped
it was medicine accounting you know the
Asian prophecy so when I found that
diamond being magic I thought that all I
had to do was get really good
technically as a magician because that's
what I was Tau at University being an
accountant oh if you become really
technically proficient as an accountant
you'll become an amazing accountant you
you'll be successful you get the BMW you
get everything get partner so I thought
okay magic same thing get really good
technically spent thousands of hours in
my bedroom by myself in front of a
mirror practicing magic got nowhere
because I was missing an ingredient
magicians call it
Showmanship fancy word for communication
skills right one of we we both inspired
by the same person I believe one one of
the people we're inspired by is Darren
Brown impeccable Showmanship impeccable
technical skills so when you pair
technical skills with great
communication skills that's when you
thrive I believe
because let's say for example you're
technically brilliant you're a 10 out of
10 technically but you're three out of
10 with your communication skills do you
think people perceive you to be a 10 out
of 10 or three out of 10 and you know
this hearing so many different pictures
some of the greatest ideas have flown
under your radar Without You noticing
because the founder didn't do it justice
it's an interesting idea to think that
we might rise or fall to the level not
of our technical ability but our
communication skills as it relates to
how the world perceives us and it's both
the importance there is both whereas I
feel like we get stuck into this world
where we think oh it's one or the other
and I my students always ask me this
which one should I focus on I said the
reality is both it's it's not as simple
it's both because if I have great
Showmanship and when it comes to do
doing slot of hand I
suck that's not going to work either the
people that I've been able to help the
most in my career so far are the people
who are technically so amazing at what
they do and they've been hidden away in
the back office as a technician and then
bloody Brad always gets the promotion
right Brad always gets it ah damn it
Brad got it again Brad's not smart as me
Brad is not as good as me right and and
it's because Brad talks better he's more
visible in the work environment you
really think it often comes down to just
how we speak and communicate our value
yes because if you can't communicate
your value in a way that is clear and
concise people it's it's not their
responsibility to see the Brilliance
that exists within you it's I believe
your responsibility to learn how to
shine your light brightly it's it's
super sad because I lived a massive part
of my life like
that English is my third language uh the
first language I learned is a Chinese
dialect not that impressive my wife
speaks five but thank you the first
language I Learned was a Chinese dialect
called diu right it's a bit
of second language I then had to learn
fluently is
Vietnamese so I had to learn all these
different languages growing up these
were my first two core languages that if
I wasn't proficient in it grammar would
be pissed off mom would pissed off so we
had to study it and then I went to
school and had to learn English so I
went to
school I was completely invisible I
couldn't communicate with any other kid
they couldn't communicate with me so
what do kids do oh it's too hard oh just
ignore you then they bully you oh yes I
didn't even know it was bullying because
I couldn't understand them right I could
kind of read what they seemed mean but I
no idea what they were saying so I spent
so much of my childhood especially in
those single digit years around 5 six
and seven this is super sad but I I just
spent a lot of time in the toilet
because I didn't want to deal with the
shame of being seen by myself so I just
hid I just found a corner somewhere and
no one and then gradually I started to
learn English but even when I learned
English I sounded funny because I had an
accent so then they called me fob fob
fresh off the boat yeah and they just
kept calling me oh there's the fob
there's the fob oh he's so fobby so and
then so then even though I learn the
English language now I'm scared to speak
it because I don't want to sound like a
fob
and there were all these challenges and
so I know what it's like to feel
invisible I know what it's like to be
ignored and that was a long time ago and
I guess the question that it leaves me
with is how easy is it for someone to
learn like what is the time span that it
would take from The Experience you've
had with teaching people to to make a
radical change in your communication
skills it depends on your level of
desire and motivation if you really want
it I'd say 3 to 6 months you think you
can change your communication skills in
a IAL way in 3 to 6 months I've seen it
I've seen students do it it's when
instead of just thinking about I'm
trying to learn a new habit it's what
James Clear says you you adopt a new
identity where they adopt that new
identity because one of the things I do
is I share that story about my schooling
experience at the beginning of my
in-person classes and I say I want you
all to imagine now you're at a new
school no one here in this room with us
right now has any preconceived idea of
who you are break the mold break it and
then you see grown adults do things they
wouldn't normally do break out of the
play with their voice be a little silly
reconnect with their inner child and
then in that moment they fall so deeply
in love with that version of them
because of the reactions they've been
able to get from all these strangers
around them that they commit to it it's
when you experience that change in the
moment it usually leads to a fairly
profound desire after that oh I want to
become this now but then they make a big
mistake and the biggest mistake they
make is they'll go home to their partner
and who has no context of the experience
they've been through and they've just
went oh I've been quiet with my my voice
my entire life and they'll go home they
like new me new year new me honey and
then their partner goes oh why you doing
that with your voice oh you learned that
from Vin what that's gross why are you
doing that that's so fake it's so
inauthentic and then they revert back to
who they have always been their entire
life what areas of one's life have you
seen in those examples change when
someone learned communication skills
because we we often the examples we've
given so far are just like work yeah
yeah yeah with their children
this has been the coolest part because
I'm a dad I I get I I I teach a concept
called vocal foundations which we can
dive into later and there's these
beautiful five core vocal foundations
that people can learn and I love it when
parents go through it because I always
see these comments where they said oh my
goodness just read to the kids they've
never reacted to me in that way before
the moment the one night I go home and I
read to my kids and I do it in a boring
way they go Dad don't read like that do
it the fun way and and what they're
asking for is they're asking for that
vocal variety they're asking for that
inner child for that playfulness and I
think that's one of the greatest I think
that's one of my greatest superpowers is
the ability to be playful and the
willingness to be playful so you're
going to help me in work you're going to
help me be a more entertaining engaging
parent are there any other areas of
one's life that improve when they crack
communication yes there is an area and
the area is
improv learn improvisation people all
want to get better at communication
often it's because they want to get
better at conversations what is a gamma
conversation what are we doing right now
what are we doing this is a gamer improv
I don't know what you're going to say
you don't know what I'm going to say and
then based on what I say you improvise
and you say something so even though I
know you've never done improv before you
are amazing at improv because that's a
skill you had to have developed to
become the incredible podcaster that you
are right now right so that to me is
such a important skill when you're
playing with your kids too it it helps
you with all areas of life it's the tide
that lifts all boats because kids love
to play they'll say something oh and
then then the cow now is an astronaut
and most parents like Ah that's cool
honey that's cool no play now it's also
fighting zombies that exist on the moon
and you didn't know about it m and you
play with them and when you're playing
what are you using you're using your
ability to communicate and how many
people have you taught in person and or
online oh over 70,000 now wow yeah you
have millions and millions and millions
of followers online as well that tune to
learn communication skills from you from
all around the world and if and if I was
to zoom in on the DMS that you get the
things that people are struggling with
when they message you the reason why
they watch your videos what is it the
most common message that we get when
people type a comment and leave it on
our videos is is it possible for me to
change the sound of my voice really well
because you think about it right nobody
likes the sound of their own voice the
first time you heard heard yourself on a
podcast were you like oh no or did you
say I love it look how sexy I sound when
I was younger and I was little cassette
recorders and I heard my voice I thought
[__] hell who's that yeah me too
right so that is the biggest inse one of
the biggest insecurities for most people
when they first become problem aware
with their communication skills is oh is
it possible for me to change the sound
of my voice is it possible is it
possible and and and when you reflect
upon this even when you reflect reflect
upon this most people in their entire
life will never change the way they
sound
they will never change the way they
communicate they'll change the way they
dress they'll change their hair they'll
change their glasses they change they'll
change all these things about themselves
but the way they communicate and the way
they sound stays consistent generally
M it's because there are a lot of
psychological blocks that keep us
sounding the same we keep ourselves
sounding the same you know there's I'll
share with you a few of these okay
MH with my vocal teacher at the
beginning of my journey when she got me
to do things with my voice where she
said all right let's do a really high
Voice haveit have a bit of a play Vin
and you know go into false Seto and she
wouldd make me do things like this I'd
go red because I'd go oh that feels so
weird oh now I'm becoming so deep with
my voice this feels so fake and it feels
phony I immediately came up with those
objections as I'm sure you would feel
that too if I got you to do that right
and when I dealt with my students that's
the immediate thing that comes up they
go it's fake it's phony that's not me
and then now just like my vocal teacher
she would always challenge me she goes
well if you could make the sound and you
play the key on your piano you describe
to me then how is it fake how is it fake
if you were able to make that sound that
is you that is your instrument that is
just you playing with keys you're
unfamiliar with that's it you've gone
through this entire life being so
familiar with this key that anytime you
press any other key you go oh it's not
me no no no you're just familiar with
this key and you're unfamiliar with the
others that alone helped me understand
that oh
wow it's not fake because for the
longest time I thought it was fake and
because I thought it was fake I never
changed the way I T and and why is it
that we don't want to play with those
other Keys is it because we've got so
used to playing with a particular set of
keys and you're so familiar with it
playing the other Keys comes at a cost a
perceived cost well it goes deeper than
that it goes even deeper than that
because where did you get your voice
from who did you learn it from there's
an idea that people have in their minds
about this thing called a natural voice
okay this is another objection my
students give me they go oh that's not
my natural voice and speech pathologists
will tell you this the voice you have
right now is not your natural voice you
lost access to your natural voice when
you were two or three question if I
asked you to scream at the top of your
lungs right now for about 10 minutes
yeah would what would happen to your
voice oh I'd lose it yeah my daughter 12
months old can scream for 3 hours
stevenh and she does not lose her voice
because they have this beautiful access
to their instrument they can naturally
access that in instrument whereas as we
grow older at the age of three or four
we start to be inspired by certain
people in our circles as a result of
being inspired by people what do kids do
they emulate they copy so the voice that
you've developed you've copied that
based on the people you were inspired by
when you were young it's just a series
of habits the way you speak the way you
sound is just a series of behaviors it's
how you manipulate your vocal cords how
you move air through your body how you
shape your lips where you place your
teeth how you maneuver your tongue how
you maneuver your soft pallet depending
on how you do all of that you create a
certain sound but if I change now as you
said people are going to think I'm weird
that's right well that's right but
that's the thing you have to have a
process to go about that change okay CU
if you immediately just talk tonight
with your partner with no context
they'll go she like what the hell why
did you why did you talk to VIN on the
podcast yeah why now you're fake yeah
right we'll get to that in the moment
what I'm saying is that the reason why
you don't move from that is because you
genuinely feel
stuck I'll give you the reason behind it
when you're first imitating dad I had
one of my students his name is tanzia
beautiful beautiful guy he had a very
soft way of speaking beautiful soft way
of speaking and what he didn't realize
is that in the beginning of his life he
saw Dad do it really inspired by dad so
he copied dad so he had to consciously
think about all these little behaviors
all these nuances to copy dad's sound
and then after you repeat those
behaviors for one year two years you no
longer have to consciously think about
it cuz you've mastered it so now those
behaviors move from your conscious mind
it moves into your subconscious mind and
then when behavior is move into your
subconscious mind now it feels automatic
M so now you feel like it's you so now
you don't doubt it you go no no that's
me it's like no no it's still just a
series of behaviors yeah and I often
tell my students I say all the time I
say don't be so attached to who you are
in the present you don't give the future
version of you a chance and the moment
these things happen it's incredible
seeing these changes because all my
students will do is they'll change three
things more volume more Melody bigger
hand gestures people completely change
the way they perceive them
it three simple things that they do
creates a profound change in how others
perceive
them volume Melody and hand gestures
yeah I was thinking to one example of
one of my students who a female Rachel
who who felt like she didn't have great
executive presence and it was because
she became she she labeled herself as
being
shy and I I like to break these things
down for my students too I'm like the
the reason you're shy and the reason
you're really good at being shy is
because you've been repeating the Shai
behaviors for the last 25 years so
you're really good at it and that's all
right it's because you've been
practicing Shai for 25 years being more
confident it's about us just learning a
new series of behaviors let's let's try
a larger gesture I've seen this on
multiple podcasts now just try a larger
gesture try a stronger volume try being
more melodic with your voice and then
she was practicing that immediately the
feelings of oh it feels fake it feels pH
but I go oh no it's just unfamiliar and
the moment she makes that reset she goes
oh I'll continue continue to explore
them whereas if she thinks it's fake
she'll revert back to being who she was
before so how do I speak impromptu how
do I be in the moment and come up with a
good answer another one
is I'm
introverted does that mean that I'm
doomed okay yeah and another really
common one is I don't have much
Connection in my life I wish I felt more
connected to the people that I'm around
why is it that I can't get past the the
the good day mate how are you yeah I'm
good how are you yeah I'm good all right
cheers mate have a good one oh the small
talk yeah yeah this is a big topic right
so again is just how do we how do we get
to these conversations like that you get
to have on so many of these wonderful
podcasts that you do so I reckon you
would have insights here too there's
like I was looking earlier there's
almost like a billion search results on
Google for people trying to figure out
um or trying to provide answers to how
to communicate successfully so let's get
into it so I youed this term vocal image
yeah what does vocal image mean it came
about when I realized I spend and I
think most of us spend a lot of time on
our visual image right how how we look
our body language the way we dress mhm
but very rarely do people spend time on
their vocal image now oh make it make
sense when people see you and you Reveal
Your visual image they make assumptions
about you pretty quickly so they form
assumptions oh this person seems
friendly maybe they're confident because
they got good posture maybe they're
smiling they're friendly and then all of
a sudden when you open your mouth and
you speak they now turn these
assumptions into
beliefs so what may be assumptions
before now they go oh you are friendly
you are confident right or they might
think oh no bit of a wanker right and
and and you've had these experiences
before I've had them before where you
assume you see someone you oh that
person go meet them ah not really nice
that's weird so it's another layer that
we don't think about though because we
again think we're stuck with our voice
we think we're stuck with the way we
communicate we think there's no way for
to ever change this so let's let's talk
about how one can improve their vocal
image so that they're effective across
context sure you mentioned Melody volume
hand gestures if we start with Melody
what the hell is Melody the different
notes you can hit with your voice okay
so is that variety yeah variety yeah
pitch variety pitch and Melody okay well
because there's a Melody that lives
underneath your voice all right let's do
an experiment I'm going to play you a a
piano song and I want you to listen to
this and then you're at home right now I
want you to listen to to the track can
see what words come to mind so we'll
just play we'll play the
[Music]
song okay yeah um all right sadness
right so so and then if if listeners at
home could could could have a voice here
too that maybe say they would say somber
nostalgic yeah right all these words
would come up and and again if we sat
with this for all we would get plenty of
words let's try another one right let's
change the mood let's shift to something
like uh
this um inspirational motivational good
see all of a sudden now and and I'm
thinking running towards something yeah
right and and again there's a part of me
that think oh cheesy commercial right
there's that there's that part of it too
so you can hear all these different
things let's try one more this one will
shift gears again and what about this
one uh like a horror movie scary about
to die something bad's about to happen
omnus a little a little three-year-old
stood on the the landing of the
staircase at night yes with long black
hair yes correct so that that that again
all of a sudden paints all these
different vivid pictures in your head
the reason I did that experiment is
there were no words in any of those
tracks yet think about all of the words
that rushed to your mind as you were
experiencing the melody mhm the
different notes what people failed to
realize is that you have a melody in
your voice yeah this is why when some
people walk into our lives
it it could drain the energy from our
lives and when they walk in you feel the
impact of them walking in right in the
negative way or a positive way some walk
in and you go oh I feel good I feel
great what is that it's the melody in
which they come in with can you have a
pretty limited range limited Melody but
still hit people with scary and sad and
inspiring I believe you can yeah again
because we we genuinely don't have Ada
keys right so again it's one of the it's
a it's a metaphor but I believe that we
can create so many different songs with
our voice if we learn to treat it as an
instrument and we we can we can play
with the technique to help you increase
your vocal range if you want sure
there's something called a uh this is
fun this is a fun one there's something
called a siren technique okay okay so
aarin technique is when you you read
something with a low voice and then you
go towards a high voice and you go back
down to a low voice so now I don't want
you to do to start with I just want you
to read this as you would and then we'll
try the siren technique so just read it
as you would neutrally first so just
read that as would okay so for those
that can't see Vin has passed me a card
yeah Q cards and on the card it has a
bunch of words which I'm just going to
read and and and as you're listening at
home have a guess of what movie this is
from want to know how I got these scars
my father was a drinker and a fiend and
one night he goes off crazier than usual
Mommy gets the kitchen knife to defend
herself he doesn't like that not one bit
so me watching he takes the knife to her
laughing while he does it turns to me
and he says why so serious son comes at
me with the knife why so serious he
sticks the blade in my mouth let's put a
smile on that face and why so serious
beautiful what movie is that from no
idea I don't want are you serious Dark
Knight The Joker okay so heat ledger so
amazing okay cool great so again you
read that in your neutral voice now what
we're going to do is we're going to play
with the instrument okay so the siren
technique is when you read with a really
low voice and then gradually go to a
high voice and I'm going to challenge
you to not be afraid to go into the
faleto not be afraid to play so just
play and and and it's not about going
low at the start and then high at the
bottom within each sentence I want you
to go up and down up and down I really
want you to play with your voice
otherwise I'm going to push you okay in
three two go want to know how I got
these
scars my father was a drink and a f good
and more na he goes are crazier than
usual Mommy gets the kitchen knives to
defend herself good okay
wow it hurts now try to go in a way
where it is a little more even just give
it a go but normally you won't be able
to because you won't have all of the
range fully expanded try again keep
going he doesn't like that not one bit
good so me watching he takes the knife
to her yes laughing while he does it
good turns to me and he says why so
serious
son fantastic that's fantastic you did a
great job right but you feel that
feeling you feel right now yeah weird it
yes and it's not so much about getting
you to speak like that on the podcast
but it's more just helping you
realize this instrument that you have is
capable of so much more yeah there is so
much more that it can do as opposed to
what we normally do with it right
because for the longest time in my life
I didn't have any Melody because I I
just thought this was how you talk and
the reason I can switch to this very
quickly Stephen is because I practice
these behaviors for about 25 years
what's even more interesting is they
they've done studies where they had five
or six people talking at the same same
time and the person who the person heard
was the person who had more melody in
their voice oh really the person who is
more melodic what they say becomes more
memorable whereas if all of us were
speaking like this me yourself Jack
everyone all of a sudden you wouldn't
hear you wouldn't be able to hear the
difference mhm was all of a sudden if
you just start to play with your voice a
little
more how do you know you've not played
with it too far do you know what I'm
saying by playing with the to far and
then getting feedback right and people
are so afraid of that though and they
don't realize that they they don't go
too far they
underplay the risk is not going too far
the risk is not going far enough again
at this point when people heard me of
course of course squeaking like Mickey
Mouse they're going to say [__] me like
I you're going to have to remind me
again Vin why this is worth it you'll be
able to make people feel more connected
to you they will feel what you're saying
not just hear what you're saying I mean
do you notice this in some people of
course they will say things but you
don't feel it yeah it happens in
America's Got Talent Australia's Got
Talent where Simon Cal will say right
right very good but I don't feel it what
are they talking about it's the emotion
in their
voice there is emotion in your voice too
do you want to go to the next one please
I didn't know there was more there's
more yeah there's five [__] let's go
through all five no the next one I'm
just going to get you to read this one
as you would and then I'll tell you what
it is okay just so you don't get ahead
of yourself okay okay cool and and see
tell me if please tell me you know this
movie far out Stephen I don't know who
you are I don't know what you want if
you are looking for ransom I can tell
you that I don't have money but I I do
have but what I do have are a very
particular set of skills skills I have
acquired over a very long career skills
that make me a nightmare for people like
you if you let my daughter go now
that'll be the end of it I will not look
for you I will not pursue you but if you
don't I will look for you I will find
you and I will kill you yes very dark
movies I love these movies what movie is
this that is the movie called where he
his daughter gets kidnapped what's it
called yes it start with L his name
Lion King I'm joking no what is it right
from Taken but here's the thing so the
next Foundation is rate of speech okay
so if you reading that and I was kind of
just giving you some coaching again as
you reading that think of rate of speech
of having a scale from 0 to 10 yeah all
right so one being painfully slow and 10
being as quickly as you possibly can
right so you were around playing around
of five very comfortable that's your
default rate of speech most of us when
we're nervous we just have a default
rate of speech we fall victim to a
default rate of speech when you think
about rate of speech there's a way to
use it and the way you use rate of
speech is if you really want to
highlight a point creating an auditory
highlight slow down that creates an
auditory highlight it's like a
highlighter with your words and if you
want to be able to show Charisma energy
you speed up and if it's not as
important you can speed up and that's
fine this simple rule gives you vocal
variety with your rate of speech that's
simple rule and what does changing my
rate of speech then do to the message
I'm communicating it makes it more
memorable clear okay there's more
clarity in it right so for example if I
if I was speaking and I said right now
I'm going to go through the five core
vocal foundations and I'm going to take
you first one through is rate of speech
then after that I'm going to talk to you
about pitch and Melody and then after
that I'll talk to you about the
importance of the other three right now
you have no idea what is important and
what is not important okay right whereas
all of a sudden now if I said I'm going
to take you through the core five vocal
foundations all of a sudden you now have
a point of focus and the big thing that
people want with their communication is
Clarity well if you are going to be more
clear the delivery needs to be clear so
that the receiver gets what you intend
okay it's not just about the exchange of
information because how I say something
impacts how you receive it so I want to
slow down where I want to hit emphasis
yes and this script has multiple places
where you want to slow down when people
are nervous yes what what happens they
speed up they speed up they speed up
considerably considerably and have they
ever measured that oh does anybody know
if you get above 210 words per minute
you be a little bit too far and what's
the average person speaking at in terms
of words per minute around 150 you want
to get to around 150 180 that's very
good that's a good kind of rate of
speech to be at whereas if you're slower
than that then again it just gets a
little bit monotonous at times for
people but
again here's what's
fascinating if I if all of a sudden now
I stick to a default Melody and then
stick to a default rate of speech notice
what's happening in your brain right all
of a sudden you start again you start to
switch off right whereas all of a sudden
if I start to vary my radi speech the
transition from slow to fast is what's
hooking people so if you were to try to
read that again now but I want you to
slow and some bits painfully slow down
and play with your voice and then some
bits go quicker and then the last bit
I'm going to kill you slow it all the
way down and be playful it's not
about okay I'm going to start from on
here sure if you're looking for a
ransom I can tell you that I don't have
money but what I do have oh are a
particular SE
skills skills I've
acquired over a very long career let's
skip to the
end if you let my daughter
go that will be the end of it I will not
look for you I will not pursue you but
if you
don't I will look for you I will find
you and I
will
kill you yes give him a big round of
applause that was amazing so much but
again you feel so strange when you do it
yeah I do yeah it's so fun to listen to
and and and again this is us practicing
this is a safe environment I'm not don't
do your next podcast like that but again
it just goes to show the range that we
have access to and how it changes the
message in such a profound way it's the
same words yeah it's the same words but
when you read it the first time it
didn't sound scary at all now I feel
scared there's something I I noticed
this in like board meetings and stuff
especially with like younger team
members or people that would class
themselves as being shy that they do
hurry along and there is a certain
someone said to me the other day that
people that have the most confidence in
Charisma they like move and talk as if a
li if they were a lion yeah yeah you
know they're slow and they're composed
PR versus Predator I remember listening
to the episode was fantastic yeah there
is it's people who are confident take
their time what's that third one okay
just read part of it read read part of
it you're more than happy to Freestyle
read part of it now if you know what you
are worth then go out and get what you
are worth but you have to be willing to
take the hits and not pointing fingers
saying you ain't where you want to be
because of him or her or anybody cowards
do that and that ain't you you're better
than that now the thing is this next one
is volume oh [__] yeah volume so
critical okay for many different reasons
MH volume is the lifeblood of your voice
mhm volume carries all the other
foundations you're about to learn volume
carries the melody volume carries the
rate of speech it carries everything
right and again I think of it as having
a scale from 1 to 10 and a lot of the
times like what you just did people are
around at three or four M and they stay
around there when you use volume there's
two ways to auditorily highlight
something with volume volume is
fascinating because with we of speech
you slow down but with volume volume to
highlight something you could go very
quiet okay so if all of a sudden I
wanted to say something scary I could
lower my volume and say it but then all
of a sudden notice what happens if I
just stay here now what's started as a
great verbal highlight now just kind of
seems doesn't seem effective anymore
because if you make something default it
becomes non-functional and what signals
I'm not a confident person what side of
the
scale the lower scale okay on volume
okay because that's one of the default
shy behaviors that a lot of people
exhibit and what about leaders where do
they land on the
scale depends if they're self-aware
right sometimes if they're not
self-aware they can be on the higher end
and that's you know you have someone
come across as a little arrogant
sometimes it's just too much volume
because too much volume without the
other foundations now you come across
arrogant so again if I give this back to
you and again just for fun like I I want
you to go loud I want people to hear
outside of this studio what we're doing
[__] so just just have a go and just and
give me and give me a whisper too at
some point give me a whisper
too now if you know what you're
worth go out and get it go out and get
what you're worth but you have to be
willing to take the
hits and not pointing fingers saying you
ain't where you want to be because of
him or her or anybody cowards do that
and that ain't you yeah you're better
than that oh it's amazing yeah what you
just did made me feel why did I feel is
what is a voice a voice is a series of
vibrations so you just
sent vibrations my way that made me feel
mhm that's why we say people have Good
Vibes right we kind of we understand
it's happening but we don't understand
that kind of frequency level at the
vibration level but it's happening at a
physical level MH where depending on how
you use your voice you're
genuinely moving people quite
physically we did rate of speech we did
volume we did the
yeah and then there's there's two left
right there's two left yeah right so
this one read it as you would parts of
it and it's not because I'm lonely and
it's not because it's New Year's Eve I
came here tonight because when you
realize you want to spend the rest of
your life with somebody you want the
rest of your life to start as soon as
possible what we're moving into now is
the emotion that exists within your
voice tonality this is the emotion that
exists right so the way to add more
emotion into your voice is to move your
face because as I eloquently put it at
times your face is the remote control
that allows you to add emotion into your
voice so let's play right so now I'll
give you different faces to make I'll
tell you a different faces to make and
you make those different faces and allow
those emotions to come through your
voice okay so if it's happy then I want
you to sound really happy if I don't
want you to sound really sad so we'll
start with and and try your best to play
with this I want you to make disgust
like just uh disgust and let that come
through and give me a more volume give
me disgust in three two and it's not
because you're lonely yeah and it's not
because it's New Year's Eve surprised
really
surprised I came here tonight because
when you realize you want to spend the
rest of your life angry give me
angry you want the rest of your life to
start as soon as possible happy best day
of your life Stephen you want the rest
of your life to start as soon as
possible that's so beautiful you know
this already in our brains there's miror
neurons right and when I see you go
through these different facial
expressions I feel what you feel even
though I know this is a a situation
we've created here for us to experiment
it's a safe environment but every time
you went through any of those emotions I
felt
it because I didn't just see it are men
worse at this stuff yes they are yes
because I feel well for me I can only
speak personally for me I was taught to
keep my emotions on the inside right I
always taught that it's a sign of
weakness to show you being sad you being
happy you should just be composed
composed at all times and then that's
what I thought and that that led me to
the behavior of speaking whereas I just
always speak like this because I'm a man
and I should always speak like this and
I still remember going to one of the
concerts and my my my life turns over
she goes how do you feel I'm like this
is a really exciting
concert and and and and she goes well
okay you obviously hate it and I'm like
no no I I love it I love it and I just I
didn't know how to emote and again I
thought I was stuck like that because I
was stuck like that for years and that
that damaged a lot of my
relationships because here's a thing
that I think and it might be helpful for
you too when you're listening to someone
talk you don't have to react with sound
because otherwise you'll be seen as
interrupting the other person right you
can react with facial expressions and
that is one of the most powerful ways to
show them you're listening and that
you're following along how cool is that
cuz if someone's saying something really
bad and you're like yeah it shows them
you're locked in yeah you learn it as a
podcaster yeah you do because the
audience they're looking at you for most
of the conversation so 95% of the
conversations on you yes what they don't
know is that throughout that time I'm
basically talking to you with my face
you are and you're really good at it so
if I turn my head like this it means
tell me more so I'll be you'll be
talking a go like this yes and it means
tell me more yes and then it's it's
interesting and you can expand that
range yeah it doesn't just have to be
curious yeah and cuz I see you do it I
see you consistently do the different
faces to give me the queue to almost go
oh he wants to elaborate oh he's in he's
locked in do you know you can the thing
I've learned from both speaking on stage
but also doing this is you can also [__]
it up you can also communicate the wrong
thing yes accidentally one of them that
people communicate quite often that
accidentally is they start talking while
you're speaking do you ever know that
like when someone's um listening to
speak they start they start going like
this yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah and
it means shut the [__] up I need to I
have something to
say I just did it like that but it's
that kind of no but it's that kind of
thing it's like you know I think who was
on my podcast it was Vanessa she said if
you do the fast nod it means shut the
[__] up so if you go yeah but if you do
the slow nod it means oh I love this so
if I go oh I've learned something that's
curiosity tell me more versus
yeah with yeah yeah and wave my hand
yeah yeah yeah okay so tonality so
emotion and that was so beautiful to see
you do that because it just again we
just have such great range and then
imagine you start to vary your rate of
speech now you vary volume you've got
different Melody you've also got
different facial expressions this is
such a
rich song that you're playing now do you
think much of about the actual words
you're saying as well of course I can
see that you think about the structure
of what you're saying like you're
thinking about cuz when you start
speaking I notice that you often go into
a story straight away something
interesting you'll say this is one of
the greatest things I've learned from my
teacher is that intentional it is
because I believe stories are more
sticky than me just throwing you a bunch
of tips and hacks and tricks do you have
a storytelling formula I do what is the
storytelling formula I think the way
most people tell stories is is they
report stories so I'll share a story
with you okay and reporting a story is
let's say you ask me the question I this
is one of my favorite stories it's let's
say you ask me how I met my wife
reporting a story is just me saying oh I
met my wife at a bar and I did some
magic to her she didn't like it and that
was cool and then I gradually was able
to wo her in the end but I met her at a
bar that's me that's me reporting the
story right it's kind of sounds like a
news reporter yeah right so if you think
about it again let me just anchor it
with a news reporter it's like a news
reporter saying last night at a bar at
9:00 p.m. Vin Jang went to AAR called
distill and tried to pick up a Gil did a
Cheesy magic trick it didn't work
therefore he failed he came back four
times again and then he saw her and then
he succeeded and now they're married
onto the next news right so it's it's
kind of very reporter whereas matter of
fact matter of fact whereas this is the
story of how I met my wife so I still
remember this because this happened in
2009 I crashed a girl's graduation party
named Vivien it was at a bar called
distill this beautiful bar called
distill and there was two levels to this
bar on the bottom was for everybody and
on top was the high rollers you had to
buy expensive drinks to get to the top
and I got to the top and I saw this
beautiful Malaysian girl sitting by the
bar so I said to my friends I said watch
this and I take a packet of cards out of
my pants cuz I'm magician so I walk up
to her walk up to and I say would you be
impressed if I transformed this king of
hearts into the Queen of Hearts like
yourself disgusted I know you're making
the disgusted face and and that's how
she reacted she she looked at me as if
she smelt a bloody fart she looks at me
she goes I'd be more impressed if you
transformed into a real man had a
conversation with me
boom and I've never had that reaction
before normally people say wow you're
amazing so I said to her no thanks and I
left tail between my legs the boys all
teased me and everything but I was so
drawn her confidence just oh there was
something there I went back to the bar
four times in a row she wasn't there she
wasn't there she wasn't there then she
was there and I walked up to the second
time and I said Hey listen what if I
transformed into a real man andon I took
you out for a
coffee and we fell in
love you know and that that's that's the
story of how I met my wife whereas the
way I would normally tell that story is
just oh I met her at a bar did some
tricks she didn't like it and then that
was fun yeah but all of a sudden there
was so much life so much zest in that
story I noticed you added so much almost
irrelevant
detail but you talked about the bar
having two floors and stuff make it
visual okay so I could picture it in my
mind want to make it visual well it's
it's it's well okay so here's a when you
think of the storytelling formula if you
just give the who what where and when
that's the basics people need but what
turns up from reporting to
reliving because that's what you want to
get to you want to get to reliving a
story is the ingredients that you just
called out so intuitive if you to call
him out vax v a s which stands for
visual auditory kinesthetic and smell so
I'm just describing those few things for
you right and it doesn't always have to
have all the ingredients but you want to
add some of those ingredients right so
the visual I describe to you the visual
the auditory what I said I did my voice
I did her voice I gave you dialogue
right so all of a sudden you bring those
the story to life now it goes from
reporting to
reliving so if I if I told that story
and let's say that now the connection
ability is again it's to do with improv
as well is instead of just going out and
saying here's three ways to show up
authentically when you're trying to pick
up someone yeah instead of doing that I
share the story first I get you to
engage I build rapport I build chemistry
now you've heard the story now you have
rapport with me you feel more relaxed
you feel more creative right then I link
that story to so the very next time you
walk up to a girl if she does say no she
may not be saying no to you she may just
be saying no to your approach here are
the three ways you can show up more
authentically as a
man I believe that is a much more
powerful way to then go into the three
tips whereas I I feel that because of
the world now with social media we just
we we've lost art form of Storytelling
is just give me the three tips now I've
heard you talk about these four elements
to a great story which is the hook the
struggle the break through and the
application which is kind of what you
just displayed there well the the
importance of application I think is
something that I really focus on with my
students the and by application you mean
the lesson or the big takeaway from the
story cuz sometimes people tell stories
and they go nowhere well it's also what
you do after
okay because I can I can share a story
but if I one of our viers went viral and
and I don't to be an expert on social
media okay so I don't I still don't
understand how some of these things work
even though we've been able to grow all
of our social channels quite quickly I I
don't understand how it works it to me
I'm like oh wow I can't believe that
worked last time oh it doesn't work
anymore huh that's weird so to me it's
what people love is when you give them a
really simple pragmatic takeaway that
they can go and actually
do like go do it now where whereas we we
don't apply knowledge we just keep
consuming and go through knowledge
acquisition there's there's a cycle of
Doom that we go through there's just
just cycle of I mean this is the cycle
my students go through oh drob promotion
oh crap I need to work on my
communication skills what's the first
thing they do they go to Google and then
they Google how do I improve my
interview skills my communication skills
then they get back 10.6 Million results
they go ah this is too crazy surely
someone's created a YouTube video then
they go to YouTube they type in how to
improve communication skills they get 3
million videos right and they go oh this
is too chat GPT I'll go to chat GPT now
how to improve communication skills and
it gives you these generic answers from
blogs that have no relevance to you and
then after that you feel so overwhelmed
you do nothing with it but it's just
this cycle we all fall victim to over
and over and over again we just keep
consuming knowledge and nothing actually
changes because we're not applying
it so the the key is to get out there
and start running some of these
techniques in the real world and just
pick one pick one and just try it it's
like we're going through all these
different things right after this
episode go out and just try tonality
with your kids and read them a
children's book because those books are
naturally emotive and if you don't have
kids borrow a niece or a nephew and just
watch the impact on the other human
being as you play with your instrument
watch them smile watch them giggle watch
them react to the way you play your
instrument because then it wakes you up
to the fact that you've got access to
this and that I can change the way
someone feels what
power yet we don't use it I've just
realized that there's one more left
there is one more left here okay I know
I know what this yeah of course if you
didn't I'd be quite deeply offended yeah
I'll get you to read this and we'll play
with the last one okay yeah okay my name
is Maximus Decimus Meridius correct
commander of the armies of the north
general of the Felix Legions loyal
servant to the true Emperor Marcus
aelius father to a murderer son husband
to a murdered wife and I will have my
Vengeance in the life or the next
perfect now we're going to read it again
except the final Foundation here with
the voice is pause whatever emotion
comes before the pause once you pause it
intensifies that emotion so if you got
the feeling of anger and you pause oh
that is a pause of anger but if all of a
sudden I'm sad and and then I pause you
prolong the sadness it's a pause of
sadness and think about how important
the pause is in music and I love the
world of music I love listening to
orchestral music and when you think
about it what happens right after a
crescendo it's a pause silence the most
important note that they play during
that peace yet we barely use it and what
else does the pause do when you pause
you give me time to process what you're
saying yet we are so afraid of the
pause my name is Maximus Decimus
Meridius commander of the armies of the
north general of the Felix
Legions loyal servant to the true
Emperor Marcus aelius father to the mer
murdered
son husband to a murdered
wife and I will have my
vengance in this life or the next oh
beautiful when you paused you gave me
time to process the weight of what
you're saying the first time you read it
you rushed through it just like that
nervous employee in front of their
leaders who just rush through it you may
have just shared the most brilliant plan
for a marketing campaign but because you
rushed through it I didn't feel the
weight of how profound the strategy is
there's something when you pause you
almost you tell the person don't you act
almost inexplicitly that they should
really give a [__] about the thing you
just said yeah like it really mattered
it's important yeah because you're like
giving it space to
breathe and do you see what all these
foundations do what do they give you
ultimately like what does It ultimately
lead to
Clarity do you think there's a certain
set of those tools that when applied or
a certain sort of
style of speaking that makes people
dislike you is there a certain one that
just doesn't make them warm to you is it
the low pitches is it the fast
speaking the there's sounds that people
don't like for example have you ever
called I don't mean to pick on real
estate agents but it happens a lot to me
in Australia when you call a real estate
agent it's hello this is James from XY
real estate and when you hear that
sequence of Melody no worries I'll put
you on to the next person and you hear
you switch off you just go ah this
person just just I'm not really
connected to that person and all you
have to do is you just tell them to
switch the melody and just don't use
that sing song voice and they call that
a sing song voice in the world of vocal
training right you've got a sing song
voice and if you keep following the same
Rhythm you have a sing song voice so
instead of doing that just go hey it's
James how can I help mate you said the
same thing you just switched up the
melody that sounds a little more sincere
because it was a bit more varied or
exactly right and it's not what
everybody uses because once everybody
uses the same thing all of a sudden it
now sounds like a script that's why
people are so afraid when they're
creating content online they go I I
don't want to sound
scripted there's a sound to it and it
generally follows up that's why
newscasters they there's a sound to it
yeah last night at 9:00 p.m. there's
that there's a and then they keep using
the same Rhythm over and over and over
and over again the same Melody sequence
over and over and over and over again
and am I right in thinking if I wanted
to be really boring I should just kill
all variety kill all the foundations
nothing give me nothing and and it's
what happens when people again the
people that I serve it's what happens is
because they
go I'll let my work speak for
itself and and I say that's great that
means you do great work but why not
speak for your work too why can't we do
both MH why does it have to be one or
the other yeah it's a shame not to do
your work Justice you know because you
can do it at disservice just by
delivering it without the foundations as
you've said yeah and and then other
people as you said they could have a
half the idea but double the double the
Showmanship yeah and that happens too
that happens too right so to me it's
about helping those who they' they've
got something amazing you've got a story
you need to share you've got an idea you
need to pitch you've got incredible
technical skills that you've worked on
for the last 15 years and you're
thinking why am I still stuck in this
position it's well hey let's let's do
great work and let's let's allow
ourselves to build the ability and grow
the ability to shine how does one
increase their self-awareness as it
relates to their communication skills is
there is there a practice I can do to
understand if I'm good bad at this if
you are problem unaware to communication
and right now you just go oh this is
something I need to work on then this is
the three-step process you have to
commit to and just by doing this it's
going to dramatically change the way you
talk it's going to dramatically change
the way you show up I call it record and
review and I learned this as a magician
and it's so practical when it comes to
Magic and communication skills First
Step record a video of yourself speaking
for 5 minutes a full 5 minutes and
always immedately say oh what do I say
though Google or chat GPT great
conversational starters and then use
those for yourself and just talk but it
has to be impromptu because I'm trying
to tease out core behaviors I don't want
you to give me a pitch that you've
delivered 20 times already I want you to
just in the moment speak I'm trying to
tease out some non-functional behaviors
so once you've recorded that video of
yourself for 5 minutes leave it for a
Day video or just audio video you want
video you want to be standing while
you're doing this okay once you've got
that video recorded leave it for a day
because when you watch it straight away
I'm fat I'm ugly I don't like myself I
hate the way I sound you leave it for a
day you're thinner you're better looking
you love yourself more time and space
it's amazing so leave it for a day then
when you watch it back you review it in
three different ways the first time so
you record on your phone you turn the
sound all the way up press play turn
your phone over just listen here you're
doing an auditory review and just listen
to your voice and now because you've
listened to this podcast you also have
five vocal foundations can think about
so now auditorily think about how's my
rate of speech how's my volume oh my
default rate is around a three oh I
speak really and I stick to that oh my
default volume is oh my goodness it's
one oh wow there's no tonality there's
no emotion in my voice there's no pitch
for oh I am not pausing you'll be able
to take so many notes and you'll be able
to hear things you've never been able to
hear before because most people avoid
filming
themselves because I hate the way I look
and I hate the way I sound right so to
me once you do that you have you'll have
a page of notes and a whole new level of
awareness on your auditory communication
skills so the next step is now you turn
your phone back around you turn the
sound and put it on mute you press play
and you just look at yourself and then
as you're watching yourself because most
people don't do this unless they're
creators you don't do this that's why
creators are such great communicators is
because they do this that's why you're a
great listener in a podcast because you
watch yourself back so now as you just
watch yourself back without the auditory
feedack back all of a sudden now you'll
see things you don't normally see oh wow
I'm swiveling a lot on my chair oh wow I
don't use my hand gesture oh W I'll put
my hands behind my back oh this is my
big tick I keep touching my glass I
can't help it oh I need to work on that
but you keep touching your glasses right
I keep touching my face I keep touching
my mouth I keep fiddling with things
you'll see a whole bunch of
non-functional behaviors that you've
never seen before because you've avoided
it and also because you have this idea
in your head that you're stuck you're
not it's just a series of behavior yes
right and then afterwards the final form
of review don't listen to it and don't
watch it get it
transcribed because now you'll see the
way you communicate from a different
perspective and you go oh my goodness I
ramble I I talked about the same thing
over you because you see it from a
different perspective sometimes you
don't hear that it's easier to see it
and then you see it and I can see you
reacting right but that's that's what
people do is they they go oh not only do
I ramble because when you get a
transcribed leave in all of the nonwords
and the filler words nonwords being the
sounds we make to fill the silence
filler words being the words we use to
fill the silence and so like do you know
what I
mean this transcription is immediately
going to reveal to you all of your
auditory clutter the things that you say
again nonwords and filler words auditory
clutter that's the again the ano like do
you know what I mean um uh highlight it
with a red highlighter because it might
not just be those one of my big ones was
okay
okay I taught online during CO as a
result of that because I didn't get the
inperson feedback from my students I
would always say okay at the end of my
sentences because I wasn't getting any
feedback so I say that's the vocal
foundations okay all right now that's
body L okay okay okay and I didn't even
notice I was doing it but that process
revealed to me immediately oh wow I
didn't know that I was able to remove
that because it didn't
serve why does it matter to remove the
clutch to words you know the like as um
why does it matter I'll give you an
example of it you know like um if I you
know was uh taking you through like the
um core uh you know vocal foundations
you know like uh it decreases the
clarity of the message it's okay to have
some be human I get it it's not about
none but it's about having some and not
have your speech littered with it is it
easy to overcome that yeah it is because
to get rid of that bad habit you just
need to learn a new habit and the new
habit is pause so the very moment you
feel like saying
um we're not lagging we're just pausing
right you
pause and that's why as part of the
vocal foundations you have to learn to
be comfortable
with what we're doing right now just
pausing and it's okay so I've got my
three sheets of paper there there I've
I've done the auditory assessment I've
done the visual assessment I've looked
at the transcript and I've seen the
words and again is it repetitions from
there on after to like step before that
okay because nor normally what happens
after you do that and I know because my
students have done it and then what
happens is
overwhelm because they
go oh my goodness there's like 26 things
I have to
improve that's which one do I pick and
then they'll have to DM me on social
which one do I pigment and then analysis
paralysis and to me is it doesn't matter
pick one so what you do is you crate
yourself a little 12we plan and you plan
it one week at a time so first week rate
of speech great so you the whole week
you you you you just look at rate of
speech okay okay at the end what do you
do of that week record and review
again did it change no guess what you're
doing next week rate to
speech and it's that commitment and I
love this Japanese word called Kaizen
Relentless Improvement and you all do
this here amazingly that's what you got
to commit to and you focus on rate of
speech until you see change and I used
to do coaching I don't do it anymore
because I've got two kids and I you know
they're the most important people to me
right now but I used to coach CEOs and
they would see my plan to help them
improve their communication skills and
they get pissed off because they
go I I'm just doing rate of speech I'm
like yeah because your default is so
slow you're putting everyone to sleep
and if you don't change it after week
one or week two I'm still going to get
you to do the same
thing and just by increasing rate of
speech alone they became so much more
Dynamic took a month we all know people
that overt talk and overe explain 100%
like how does one know if they're doing
that and how to change it by being able
to record yourself while you're in
conversation with someone and zoom is
amazing now so all of a sudden now if
you want Awareness on that record
yourself and and the beauty of recording
yourself on something like Zoom is all
of a sudden now you can you can watch
yourself and you see the other person
too do you recommend someone like me if
if we're trying to improve the
communication skills of everybody in the
company to record our meetings and to
send it after 100% and review it and and
and you you may not get reactions when
people say things because most people
the only thing they'll give you feedback
on with your commun this is the only
feedback anybody will ever give you on
your communication I felt like you
talked a bit too fast they'll never say
anything else because anything else is
an attack on your personality right so
people are very afraid to give you
feedback right especially you being the
big boss no one's going to give you
feedback right so all of a sudden or
maybe they do I feel like your team
do what I'm trying to get at is all of a
sudden now when you watch yourself back
on those videos you now will see their
facial reactions people are very honest
with their body language you've had body
language experts on here people might be
able to lie with what they say but all
of a sudden they tell the truth with
their body language you will see people
do the silent yawn right you'll see
people they just do the silent yawn
right they keep their mouth closed but
they're yawning you will see the these
things if you start to reflect and
review and you go a I shouldn't have
said that I took too long I lost them
you can see it I do that with my
classes when I record when I used to do
my Keynotes I had a whole career as a
keynote speakers when I did that I used
to duct tape two GoPros together and
I'll duct tape the little red recording
button so the audience doesn't know like
that I'm I'm recording myself and I'm
also recording the audience only for my
purpose right as I review my speeches
and I would watch backto back the
audience faces and my Keynote
and I could you you can see where you
lose people because at a conference
their faces light up with their phone
you can literally see when you're losing
them in the talk and when you watch
those back toback it is so humbling
because you go wow did I go on for why I
thought it was a fun tangent it wasn't
and then I kept that tangent in for
bloody six months because I thought it
added so much value it did not add value
so the only way to get that awareness is
you have to find Opportunities where you
can record yourself do you mind if I
pause this conversation for a moment I
want to talk about our show sponsor
today which is Shopify I've always
believed that the biggest cost in
business isn't failure it's the time you
waste trying to make decisions time
spent hesitating overthinking or waiting
for the right moment when I started my
first company at 20 years old I had no
experience and no money what I did have
was an idea and the willingness to move
fast and that made all the difference if
you've been thinking about starting your
own business Shopify makes this entire
process so much much easier with
thousands of customizable templates you
don't need coding or design skills you
just need a willingness to start Shopify
connects all your sales channels from
your website to social media and it
handles the backend payments shipping
and taxes too so that you can stay
focused on moving forward and growing
your business if you're ready to start
visit shopify.com Bartlet and sign up
for A1 per month trial period That's
shopify.com
Bartlet and when you went up on stage as
a keynote speaker was there anything
that you did before you went on stage to
make sure that you performed optimally
cuz you were speaking what 80 times a
year or something yeah yeah yeah it got
pretty full on yes have a way to calm
your mind calm your body and get really
focused and the way I do it is the first
thing I would do is whm Hof the guided
bubble
breathing 30 times and then hold your
breath and then a deep breath in hold
for 15 and then release three cycles of
that oh stepen I'm my mind is relaxed my
body is relaxed and then the next thing
I do is I just do a little bit of brisk
walking do maybe 10 20 push-ups why
because I'm getting rid of the
adrenaline that's building up in my body
because if you don't get rid of the
adrenaline you will go on stage and you
start pacing the stage and I've seen
speakers do this where they Pace there's
no reason for their movement but they're
moving because there's so much
adrenaline In Me Right non-functional
Movement nonfunctional so get rid of the
adrenaline so a little bit of brisk
exercise gets rid of that adrenaline
that you don't need so do those two
things and depending on how nervous I am
I may have to do a mindset shift and the
mindset shift
is the only way you can become
self-conscious and nervous is if you're
thinking about yourself so if you're not
thinking about
yourself and you have no cognitive
capacity to think about yourself then
how can you be nervous so think of the
audience right before coming to this I
felt a bit nervous I thought you know
what I'm just going to think about
Steven and I'm going to think about his
audience how can I add the most value
possible in this podcast as we
and the moment I thought about you and
your audience I I don't have any
cognitive capacity left to think about
me MH so when you kind of think about
this act of service it it shifts where
you are you're not in your own body
anymore you're not self-conscious your
audience conscious helps and is there
anything you do with your mouth and your
tongue CU sometimes especially if I've
woken up early in the morning and I'm
like jumping on a zoom call with some
foreign time zone yes like it feels like
my mouth isn't quite like there yet and
also it feels like my brain's not
connected to my mouth so first thing is
lip trills have you ever done lip trills
before no okay lip trills are
this perfect and a lot of people won't
be able to do that so all you do is get
your two index fingers push your cheeks
together and you can
go do your favorite song so you think of
your favorite song and you you
know Final Countdown one of my favorites
right now do that for an entire song so
do that for your favorite song and once
you've done that if you do that for 2 to
3 minutes now all of a sudden your
articulators have woken up you've also
woken up your vocal cords and your lips
now being the main articulators we use
to shape the words that we say it's
awake the siren technique is another the
great way to wake up your voice and
you've done the the S technique which is
read low and then go high read low and
then go high the other thing that I
learned from studying your work is this
idea of the Power Sphere when you're on
stage ah this Power Sphere I've got a
picture here you got a picture that I I
learned this from Mark Bowden Mark
Bowden is an incredible body language
expert and I was lucky to do some
coaching with him when I lived in the US
and he taught me this concept of the
area between your belly button and your
eyes yeah and that's the P sphere so
when you're gesturing to people a lot of
people who are shy they gesture below
the P sphere well just like hands to so
so again they're doing all these
different things but they're doing this
like oh hey great to see you oh I'm so
excited to be here it's great right and
why are they doing that because they're
because they're playing small okay
scared to take up space right so and
again I get a lot of my female students
ask me this question they say oh Vin I
feel like I don't have enough presence
and I get the feedback I don't get
executive presence what is this elusive
thing called executive presence it's
simple it's two things it's vocal
presence and physical presence and how
you use your hand gestures allows you to
level up your physical presence so if
you've got better physical presence
because you're using your hand gestures
within the PO sphere all of a sudden
you've got that executive presence that
they're talking about so you need to get
your elbows off your sides 100% yeah
yeah you again I think of myself as
having this sphere around me the way
that I remember Mark sharing this with
me and not be afraid to go to the edges
of the sphere don't be afraid to go to
the edges of the sphere otherwise we
tend to a lot of people T-Rex it right
the T-Rex it right don't T-Rex it just
have your arms nice out and big don't be
afraid to take up the space and and then
there are foundational gestures you
should learn paired with this the first
one which you're doing already this is
uh Virginia Satia came up with these and
she was a family therapist and she came
up with the foundation to hand gestures
this is plator try so you've got your
hand for people that can't see you've
got your hands Palm face up Palm face up
and out plator okay beautiful gesture to
show that hey I have no weapons I have
nothing to attack you with right so this
is play so you're showing your your
palms wonderful way to greet people as
they come in hey in like this instead of
surrendering just kind of hands up hey
great to see you okay beautiful great
however it's closely related to its
cousin I don't know right I don't know
is this so again it does lack Authority
so if you want more Authority you use
what's the second one called leveler
leveler is hands facing down so hands p
face down yes right feels a bit we're
doing sitting down but this is leveler
right it's there a element of control
yeah well the hands face down well try
this try this give this a go right I'm
saying this a lot to my daughter at the
moment she's very one-year-old very
sweet very naughty so again say Melody
don't do say inator say melody stop
doing that so just try it so we'll count
you down in three two melody stop doing
that perfect okay you're going to do the
same thing now in levela okay so in and
give me more volume in three two melody
stop doing that I didn't tell you what
to really even do did you notice how
your voice changed yeah what what CH my
face changed as well and what what
changed with your your body um I what
had changed with your your vocal quality
sorry it went the pitch went okay the
pitch went down yes correct and I didn't
tell you to do that yeah right so all of
a sudden cuz I was doing I was doing
anger but frustration yeah yeah yeah
exact and no one told you to do that
that's a universal thing what's
fascinating about what just happened
there is people are afraid of a monotone
voice and they don't realize that a
monotone voice comes from a monotone
body so you just moved your body from
this to this and you created a different
sound yeah is the voes connected to the
body the body's connected to the voice
and the biggest mistake you see here
within this realm here is you do imagine
you did a great keynote and at the end
imagine I do this at the end of the KE
imagine I do this right are there any
questions right versus are there any
questions I was going to say with the
level of one where you start putting
your hands down I thought you wanted to
get off stage and I don't want any and I
I don't want any questions yeah the next
one is called
blamer have a guess at what blamer is
pointing yes correct this is blamer a
very strong Gest
and then a softer version of that is the
full finger point you point with all
your fingers politicians get taught this
they they soften it soften it a bit and
then they soften it with their full
finger point I noticed this on the
podcast sometimes I noticed the people
accidentally do it when they say
something yeah oh because they'll say
they'll say something like um you know
entrepreneurs they can be they can be
quite sad because they they don't have
balance and as they're saying it they'll
like accidentally point at
me than me but it it does make
contextual sense so they'll go your
entrepreneur sometimes they don't have
work life and they're like they don't
know they're doing it but they're like
subtly gesturing in my
direction um yeah yeah I know what you
mean it's like yeah some people have you
put on a bit of
weight oh what am I I didn't know that
oh my a do it all the time yeah again
it's just different ways to vary the way
you look
visually that's blamer you got a softer
version and then you've also got this
wonderful one they call the computer and
computer is a wonderful an extra thing
you can do when you're on a podcast and
someone's you you you experience or you
hear heightened emotion you can also
respond with your face but you can
respond with your body too you can kind
of go into computer and computer is just
one arm under the armpit and the other
one at your chin you go H one arm across
and one and some people call this the
think of POS right but you can go in
this you go combine with a head tilt
soften it right straight up is a little
bit straight soften it is that is that
what head tilt does it softens it just
softens it's like okay I I I feel what
you're going through and the reason they
call it computer is I'm processing what
you're saying I'm leaning in I'm showing
you that I'm processing as opposed to
sometimes we're unaware we don't move
our face and we just sit there and
they're talking and we're like this yeah
and they don't know if you're there the
sensitivity is when you sense heightened
emotion so if they start to get a bit
frustrated you
get you can show them with your body too
beautiful pose then the the final one is
distractor which is a pattern break it's
an auditory and visual pattern break for
example if you're on stage and you're
talking and you've got gone on a tangent
I've done this maybe you've done it and
you realize the audience they're all on
their phones instead of continuing you
can execute distractor and do distractor
to get their attention back oh I'm sorry
oh I I've gone down that tangent let me
bring you back let me use a different
analogy so auditory in that there's a
clap involved MH visual in that I'm
Shing bees imagine me Shing bees as I
was doing that so clap and Sh bees
there's an auditory and visual pattern
break that now allows me to get your
attention back if you're doing this more
than once in a presentation you need to
work on your rehearsal process you need
to work on you delivering the
presentation in a way that's more
coherent I guess all of this stuff also
applies to when you're making video
clips for social media so many of us are
building personal Brands and trying to
make content but we we make boring
unengaging videos yes because you come
to life I'm coming to life visually yeah
what we're seeing here is I'm coming to
life vocally and Visually here's where
people get stuck again they go but
that's not me yeah do do you think right
now I'm I'm watching Beast games and I'm
loving it it's just I'm so addicted to
it Jimmy's doing great and do you think
Jimmy talks like that his everyday life
do you think he goes home and he says to
his Pana and next we're going to go to
dinner and for dinner you're going to
have three Choice he doesn't talk like
that but he understands that in that
context for that Medium the message I'm
trying to communicate I have to play my
instrument differently to achieve the
outcome that I desire and you're gonna
have to do the same thing in your life
whereas people are addicted to this idea
of there's only one me do you know
what's interesting is I think there'll
be a certain cohort of people listening
that just go oh God this is so I know
it's so much it's so it sounds so
exhausting then and I I just I just
can't be I can't be bothered V I can't
you must have heard this before I've
heard it before and I share with him
that the idea of influence you've got to
understand that takes work it's like
saying I want to become the best
basketballer in the world but but it's
too much work so it's a deal if you want
this if you want this then this is how
you this is how you get it yeah the
world has really changed especially in
the last couple years post pandemic and
much of our communication now takes
place on video calls Zoom Google
Hangouts this kind of thing yeah how do
the rules that you've said and you've
talked about today apply or not apply to
when I'm doing my zoom meetings yeah
it's even more important
online because the moment you sit in
front of a camera and you're not a
Creator what happens the moment it's
unnatural what happens to you because
it's weird sitting in front of a webcam
what happens to you do you think you
lose yourself a little bit yes yeah
everything drops all of your vocal
foundations disappear so what do I need
to be thinking about to be effective I
want to be the most effective person on
my zoom course because I do worry
sometimes I do worry because I have big
investment meetings and stuff with
startups or Founders that I'm in the
process of trying to do a deal with and
I think God if we do this on Zoom it
might not be so good I might come across
worse I feel like I'll come across
better in person so I often move the
meeting to in person and then sometimes
it's not always convenient right it's
never convenient
cuz you got to drive somewhere and fly
somewhere so I'd rather be effective on
Zoom nothing will replace this it's why
I flew here from Australia is nothing
will replace this if we did this
virtually it's not the same but when you
have to do it virtually you have to give
more of yourself if you want them to
feel valued you have to adopt a mindset
of
generosity I'll explain we often think
of generosity as the first form of
generosity which is which is money right
easiest form of generosity to grasp and
then you think about it for a bit more
you go oh it's it's time oh okay cool
and then you think about it for more
often people don't think about the third
form of generosity which is energy
that's what the third form is because
right now with you I'm being generous
with my energy I'm choosing to do this
stepen I'm not I'm not just I'm choosing
to do it because I want to connect with
you because I want to be able to to to
to to share the knowledge and I want to
be able to do this whereas there's a
part of again there's a part of my brain
that's like oh man you're jet lagged
you're tired just just back off a little
bit who cares all good whereas I'm now
being generous with it and online you
have to be so conscious of that you have
to be so much more generous with your
energy because naturally when you're
sitting in front of a camera you feel
weird and then all of a sudden it's like
my wife when she watches me run my
classes she goes I can't be in the same
room because I feel like you're being
too
much and I am because when I'm when I'm
teaching my classes onine four 500
people I bring a much bigger version of
myself to that class I'm bring a much
bigger version than this and then my
poor wife sitting this you get oh he
overdoing it he overdoing it but to
every single student on that class with
me virtually oh Vin this is so engaging
it's so beautiful to see how much zest
you have for what you do and afterwards
I'm
exhausted but it's a choice I'm willing
to
make to be masterful with what I do in
that moment now make sure your camera
placement is well placed a lot of people
when they appear on Zoom all you see is
their head now that makes you less
visually Dynamic whereas this is why you
need the external mic push the laptop
back external camera wider lens let them
see your whole torso yeah I love this
this is so important and I I learned
this from Vanessa van Edwards where you
you brought her on oh yeah such a
powerful such a powerful concept where
it's the idea of proxemics where there's
the study of distances most people when
they appear on Zoom they appear in the
intimate space and the intimate space is
when your head is right next to your
partner at night where you're doing
pillow talk and that's how you appear on
zoom and when you appear that close you
feel self-conscious everybody else goes
oh that's a bit right so if you all of a
sudden now learn to appear in the
personal and social space which means
they can see your full
torso that people feel more comfortable
but now you also have access to your
hand
gestures light yourself well okay and
something very simple if you're doing
Zoom meetings all the time and it's
critical for you in your work then learn
three-point lighting right three-point
lighting you've got that going on right
here right and if you don't know what it
is if you just searched it you'd find it
which is essentially three point
lighting you've got a key light you've
got a fuel light and you've got a hair
light behind you right okay so there's a
light behind you yes there's one on the
side here yes and there's one in the
front is that what you mean yes three
key lights ESS again they they they
technically call my videographers teach
me all this where they say oh you need a
you need a key light you got to have a
fuel line then you're going to have a
back line and the moment I did that on
my zoom calls I just look different to
every single other person who appeared
on that Zoom call interesting I'm just
clearer I'm crisper right and this is
again if you want to take it to the next
level I want to take it to the next
level all right then great then get a
better quality camera too don't rely on
the laptop camera okay right A lot of
people do this who are creators you just
get a nicer webcam minimum 1080p so you
look sharper you look clearer and you're
well lit okay now you look better done
perfect get an external mic okay because
if you spend all of your time working on
all of these wonderful vocal foundations
and you've got a shitty microphone and
then you talk a you you've lost there
again and get [__] good Wi-Fi while
you're yes please oh Australia needs to
listen to this as well fiber optic yeah
100% and then all of a sudden now so you
visual looks good auditor is looked
after and and don't be afraid to bring a
bigger version of yourself so much of
this is about identity isn't it it is
we're like so many of us including me uh
we're trapped in our identity like who
we think we are do you know what one of
the really remarkable things that always
reminds me how like BS our communication
style and and our identity by way of
this is is just different accents yes
the fact that someone can live in an
area and they can be scous or they can
you know live in another area and they
sound completely different like they're
from New York or something and MH it
just goes to show that we're just like
it's so contagious and easy to blend in
yes with one's environment I remember
experiencing a negative experience with
accent when I started to improve my
articulation and I wanted to improve my
pronunciation everybody around me was
saying you're trying to be British oh
really you're trying so hard to be
British how F I'm like no no I'm just
I'm just trying to improve my
articulation right I used to slur my
words all the time being an Aussie we
use so much slanging yeah I was G up I
didn't want
to right and I could I could get that to
a point where you won't even understand
what I'm saying yeah I was going I
didn't want to yeah no didn't want to do
it right whereas I didn't pronounce my
te's and then when I did pronounce my
te's instead of saying three I would say
free can I have free of those and that's
how I used to talk and I didn't realize
by talking about that people were making
judgments about my
intelligence and I was like what I
didn't even know this I didn't even know
that this was happening and all I was
doing and and again people try to keep
me the same because of identity that's
not how you should sound Vin that the
mold you are is you're a fob mate what
are you doing why are you trying to be
this British Australian and I just said
to them because when I speak like
that it creates the wrong perception in
people's minds and then they now look
down on me as a result of
that there are some accents that
experience more discrimination than
other other accents they did a study in
2006 it was a survey of the chartered
Institute of personal and development
found that 76% of employers admitted to
discriminating against candidates based
solely on their accent we judge a book
byes cover don't we we have we have that
I I have a thought though my thought is
and this is what I believe is that I
don't believe accents are a problem I
believe articulation and pronunciation
are why do you think people think people
from the UK are smart there's this
perception of it don't don't you get
that where you're sophisticated James
Bond it's because you articulate
extremely
well especially the ones that make it to
the movies right the ones we see it's
because of that and and you can have
that level of sophistic ation and
intelligence and you can radiate that
intelligence with any accent I have I
have students from India who the moment
they improve their articulation it's
beautiful there's nothing wrong with
your accent for the longest time they
said my accent is a problem I said no no
no no it's not a problem the problem is
and here here's where we go deep your
whole life you've learned the mouth
movements to speak the Indian language
then when you go speak the English
language you're Now using Indian mouth
movements to speak the English language
which are the wrong set of mouth
movement ments to speak this particular
language but no one teaches us this and
I use the Vietnamese mouth movements to
speak the English language therefore
accent and lack of clarity so what did I
have to do learn the set of English
mouth
movements completely changed
me and how how' you do that speech
pathologist oh really I had to go see a
speech pathologist yeah I struggled with
this Stephen my whole life that's why
when people look at me now very easy to
assume oh he born with the gift of the
gab and the reality I was born quite
gaess
yeah and I I I share that because it is
a skill that anybody can learn when when
you say to me you can't do this you
can't do that to me I hear oh then I
speak with my hands in my pockets and
I'm stuck that way for the rest of my
life take them out take it out it's just
a
behavior yeah I mean when you told me
that your English was your third
language I couldn't believe that yeah
because there's no remnants there's
usually a remnant of the language you
spoke before yeah there's like no
evidence of
it because this has become the primary
language that I speak the majority of
the time now but even so yeah my mother
she spoke in [__] I guess she was she's
Nigerian so she spoke Nigerian MH for
her childhood moved to the UK when she
was I think late years so maybe early
20s but there's always been the remnants
of Nigerian and she's almost 60 now so
that's 40 years is that just because she
hasn't tried to well I think it's linked
to Identity
it's I don't want to lose that okay I
don't want to lose that connection I
want to lose that sound it's why again
most people don't change the way they
sound throughout the entire course of
their life I'm not saying she should
because there is something about your
origin that gives you a little bit more
that's right something a little bit more
interesting but when I look at some of
the research it shows that in terms of
employment
opportunities I I would love that study
to be done in a way where the people who
are speaking with accents have
incredible articulation or
pronunciation as opposed to them
speaking with poor articulation and
pronunciation there's a big difference
Research indicates that individuals who
use non-standard speech patterns such as
African-American vernacular English
often face negative perceptions
regarding their intelligence competence
they have worse housing opportunities
and they have worse legal outcomes right
that's a it's a profound it is adverse
reaction just from how you speak it's a
real it's a real unfairness like an
injustice isn't it it is it is it's it's
like when I was
and and it's one of those things where
this is it's super weird I remember when
I was becoming a professional speaker
some of my peers uh who who were also
Asian I remember them saying to me they
said
hey it's going to be really hard man
right because that's for the Caucasian
man with white hair the game you were
about to play and at the time I had
blonde hair right as an Asian guy and
they're like
you there's this thing called a bamboo
ceiling Vin and I was like what the hell
is a bamboo ceiling I've never heard
heard of this before and he goes oh it's
a ceiling specifically for Asians cuz
it's a bamboo ceiling it's a ceiling we
can't get past so we call it a bamboo
ceiling right and and and again it's
it's real right for many and I believed
it to be real and for as long as I
believed it to be real I didn't try I
didn't try to go for those Geeks with
these big Fortune 500 Co I didn't
because I was like ah there's a bamboo
ceiling I can't and I remember this
quote from Steve Martin that truly
inspired me where it's be so good they
can't ignore you and then there was a
chapter while I was here I said you know
what [__] it there is no bamboo ceiling
for me all right I I I refuse to
acknowledge that there is this damn
thing I'm just going to get so good at
my damn craft I'm going to get so good
at being on stage I'm going to duct tape
bloody GoPros together and learn this
game minute by minute and I was able to
soar in my career to a place where I
never could go
and I had those limitations placed on me
all my life all these different labels
place on me all my life Steven and when
I choose to believe in them they had so
much power over me and when I chose not
to at
times some of them weren't even real and
I was creating Myself by speaking about
them all the time and I couldn't believe
where I was able to go with my speaking
career the stages I was able to get on
these companies I was able to work I
this is this even real do they know I'm
from the northern suburbs of South
Australia Adelaide that's wild that you
went from not speaking the language to
being paid Millions to speak to speak
the language and and and to teach other
people how to speak it yeah that's my
best friend says that all the time he
goes it's the most hilarious thing in
the world and I hope
that becomes a point of inspiration that
it doesn't matter if English is your
only language second third fourth or
fifth these are just a series of
behaviors that anybody can learn and if
this is what you want actually it's even
more extreme because you were bullied
for not being able to speak the language
so much so that you had to move to five
different schools and now yeah you earn
Millions from speaking the language and
teaching others how to speak it probably
some of the same people that would have
bullied you yeah I I actually had some
of them Reach Out which was crazy it was
crazy Redemption Arc yeah there was a
there was a bully that stole a bike from
me and broke my heart my mom and dad
worked for months about to buy me that
bike it was $280 Australian dollars
which was huge during the '90s it was an
incredible BMX bike with stunt pegs and
everything and I bully found out where I
lived and stole it and reached out 25
years later to apologize
you have asked him for that [__] I
thought he was going to give me that
[__] bike back but he didn't and what
was crazy was it was so beautiful
because because of the Good Vibes I've
been able to put out he saw who I had
become and I thought it was so man of
him I respected him so much for that and
I think a part of me needed it too where
he reached on he said hey man he said
I'm so sorry and I said hey I'm I I
can't thank you enough for this because
there's been pain in my heart that I
haven't been able to resolve and and and
you've just resolved you've just
resolved some of that for me when you
apologized and said sorry because my mom
like again it was just so meaningful to
me that bike you know and it and again I
just I was so happy I was so blown away
that he he
apologized you it was it was really
beautiful when dealing with people like
bullies workplace bullies people that
are insulting you or patronizing you
what is the best technique
conversationally to disarm them or
to you know to stop to stop them from
doing or to come out on top per se
whatever that might mean the simplest
version of that for me is to
use improvisation yes and and instead of
disagreeing with you I will humorously
agree with you and again I'm not sure if
this is the best thing in the world
people should do but I I diffuse this
very simply because I've had it happen
to me all my life where they say to me
and then it just doesn't give them a leg
to stand on they're go oh you're an
idiot like yeah I'm I'm I'm a bit clumsy
at times I know that and they don't know
where to go with that after that where
they go oh yeah and and and you're
stupid you go you know what I I I've
done so many stupid things in my time as
an entrepreneur I I if you've seen some
of it oh I hope you haven't seen all of
it what's the yes and technique the yes
and is just when you acknowledge what
they're saying and you're just building
on top of it right it's like yes and
you're right sometimes I can be a bit
bit of an idiot it requires you to
remove your ego though because again and
you have to be okay with that because
we're all flawed human beings aren't you
letting them win though in that
situation it it depends on how you
define win to me I'm just not going to
be hooked into this whereas before I
would defend myself I like oh what have
I done that made you think that but I'm
not interested if you're not in the I
love this quote from ber Brown where she
says if it's I think from Theodore
Roosevelt if you're not in the arena
with me I'm not really that interested
in your feedback what if you I'm on
Dragon's Den I'm on Dragon's Den there's
100 pictures a year they come into the
den five of us dragons here we're
interrog ating them we're asking them
difficult
questions based on what you know about
communication how should they handle
our critiques and our challenges is it
that yes and thing because what's the
opposite of yes and the opposite of yes
and is yes but right and and the classic
scenario is if you said something to
them simple as and I remember sharing
this with one of my clients where I saw
in their calls when people were arguing
with them about their prices they would
say yes but the reason we're expensive
is because we spend a lot more on R&D
and we update our software all the time
so all of a sudden when you say yes but
you're taking your conversation to a
negative Direction but means whatever
you say I'm going to negate that and I'm
going to give you my version of reality
whereas when you say yes and the same
thing can you you could critique them
and say oh I think your services are too
expensive yes and Stephen the reason for
that is because we invest heavily in
research and development so all of a
sudden when you say yes end you're
taking it in a positive direction you
say yes but you're taking it in a
negative Direction one we're going to
build upon this and we'll work through
this one I'm negating what you're saying
and I'm just going to share and force my
version of My reality it's it's a simple
technique in the world of it's so
effective though I see it in the Dead
all the time I see when my fellow
dragons will be like interrogating
someone and I'm watching and I watch
some of them they go yeah but but but
and they just get the person's backup
like they just it's like it becomes this
real antagonistic exchange and it
reminds me of T sharot who's a
neuroscientist that was on my podcast
who told me they did studies where they
put two people in these like brain
scanners and they got them to agree and
agree and agree and scan their brains
and when they agreed their brains were
illuminated then in the next round they
got them to disagree at a certain moment
and when they disagreed with each other
in these brain scanners their brains
basically shut down because they'd gone
into shut down they the almost like you
could when I say shut down it's like the
lights went
out um and so she taught me this law
that I wrote about which is called Never
disagree when you say that people go
never disagree doesn't make sense
doesn't make sense that's what you're
saying do so good for is even if you say
something negative it's all right even
you say that your content sucks yes and
I know sometimes we put our content that
just misses the Mark I'm human and then
there's no fire now because we're not
creating the friction to create a fire
and I I I again take that path
because I'm just not interested in just
arguing for blatant argu I'm just not
interested in that the other thing that
people struggle with a lot and we talked
about it a tiny little bit earlier on is
starting conversations and small talk
yeah it's difficult I think it's
becoming increasingly more difficult as
we become more sort of digitalized in
our lives it requires so much courage I
feel that starting a meaningful
conversation requires a lot of Courage
how do this sounds like a crazy [__]
thing to say on a podcast in 2025 how do
we start a conversation with another
human being is there like a I've got a
favorite I've got a favorite technique
that I use and it requires courage so
you have been warned it requires courage
and it's a game simple game called Halo
Buffalo Halo Buffalo I love this game oh
you're not aware of this again because
you haven't played in the world of
improv H Buffalo high is something
that's going great for you low something
that's not so great for you Buffalo
something interesting about you now
there's a reason why this game is so
great it's great because if I play
Hollow Buffalo and you play Hollow
Buffalo and we'll play it in a second
are you game to play yeah okay then what
we're doing is we're creating something
called conversational
threads let's play first so do you want
to go first or do you want me to go
first you go first okay sure hi I'm
doing the Diary of a CEO podcast this is
pretty awesome so I love that about this
like this is amazing for me this is a
big high for me
low I'm really struggling with what is
enough in this chapter of my life and
how much I should pursue building my
business how much I should grow it I'm
really struggling with that enough
component and something interesting
about me is I have three
alpackers and I live on on
acreage gosh that's crazy
I gotta beat alpacas now don't beat
alpacas whatever you like got a dog
called Pablo yeah there you go you're
overthinking it don't overthink it give
it a go hi I'm really enjoying this
conversation and I'm learning a lot
which is amazing low I haven't been
working out in the gym as much as I want
and I'm concerned that my like balance
is off because I'm recording a lot and
things are out of whack and I'm trying
to work in the evenings and that's a
struggle trying to squeeze my
relationships in there as well um random
interesting thing uh I'm training for a
marathon that I haven't signed up to yet
that's incredible I didn't know you're
going to do that that's incredible
that's not as good as alpaca and
definitely wasn't as good as
alpaca however that's great okay when
you have the courage to do do this with
someone now I have given you three
conversational threads that you can pull
on do you say it to them that we're
going to do Hyo Buffalo I play this game
with people I meet that I want to
connect with okay this is not if I'm on
the bus and I'm talking to someone no
because that's generally small talk and
if you don't want to connect with the
person doesn't make sense but what if
I'm in an elevator or I'm in a social
setting I'm at a networking event well
the game I just gave you is different
the game I gave you is a game that you
play with a colleague you've been
working with for the last four years but
you barely go beyond High okay right
because and we'll stick to that and then
I can share with you the other one but
to me what's powerful about that game we
just played is we all have people the
reason people hate their work so much is
because they don't feel connected and
it's because they're not having
conversations at work it's because they
don't feel a sense of connection with
their team members so to me when you are
courageous enough to play this game say
you've been with working with Susan for
12 months and you always see each other
in the lunch room but you never you just
just sit down with Susan and go Susan I
know this is a bit crazy listen to a guy
named VIN on coo he said if you want to
connect with someone and you care about
the connection play a game called H
Buffalo are you game play and just do
what we just did because all of a sudden
now I've given you through threads right
excited to be here also struggling with
enough and then I also Shar with the got
three Packers I live in an acreage there
are three things that you could choose
for what you're interested in asking me
about you just gave me three things I'm
also very conscious about health and I
haven't been that great with it too so
all of a sudden we can I've got three
threads to choose from what's the
opposite of that did you watch the Mr
Beast oh I haven't who's Mr Beast oh
that's cool all right I see I'll see you
in the meeting at too I'll catch you
then no worries because you've taken
your shot in the dark and you've given
one thread and it just didn't hit
whereas I'm I'm giving myself three
chances here I'm giving three
opportunities for a conversation to
spark but in actuality there is six
threads here because there's three from
me there's three from you I'm going to
roll around the office when I get back
to London and I'm going to ask people
for some higho Buffalo and just and
because all of a sudden that requires
vulnerability that requires something
you're excited about and it's also
something interesting you didn't even
know I didn't know you were going for a
marathon man that's awesome right you
should sign off for it yeah I should
what's stopping
you no matter where I am in the world it
seems like everyone is drinking matcha
and there's a good chance that that
matcha you're drinking is made by a
company that I've invested more than
seven figures in who are a sponsor of
this podcast called perfect Ted because
they're the brand used globally by cafes
like blank Street Coffee and Joe and the
juice and many many more not only can
you get perfect Ted match in cafes but
you can now also make it at home much
cheaper in seconds using our flavored
matcha powders that I have here in front
of me perfect Ted matcha is ceremonial
grade and sourced from Japan it is
smooth it is naturally sweet not like
those bitter grassy matches that I tried
before perfect Ted and if you are one of
those people that have told yourself you
don't like matcher it's probably because
you haven't tried our perfect Ted
matcher and you can find perfect Ted
matcha in the UK and Tesco sabes Holland
and Barett and in waitrose or Albert
Hine if you're in the Netherlands and on
Amazon in the USA you'll get the full
range online at perfect ted.com where
you can get 40% off your first order
with code Steven
40 quick one I want to talk to you about
our sponsor whoop a business I'm also an
investor in and if you follow me on
Instagram you probably noticed that
recently I've picked up running which
I'm very much enjoying and it started
out as a challenge but it's now evolved
into something I do almost daily it is
one of those things that's pushing me to
be better every single day but here's
the thing to me progress isn't just
about pushing harder it's also about
training in a smarter way which is where
my whoop comes in whoop doesn't just
track my workouts it tells me how ready
my body is to take them on before I've
even started the workout a few years ago
we ran a study called project PR and it
found that Runners who adjusted their
training based on their recovery scores
improved their 5K times by an average of
2 minutes and 40 seconds while reducing
injury Risk by over 30% and they did it
while training less so if you're looking
for this type of guidance when it comes
to your training head over to join.
woop.com CEO and get a 30-day trial with
zero commitment that's join. woop.com
CEO let me know how you get
on small talk is so critical I was
reading this study that said 55% of
relationships both professional and
personal are formed through small talk
and Casual interactions a study done by
the University of Oxford and it says
that 80% of conversations in the
workplace involve some form of small
talk that's Harvard Business Review if I
want to be a master at small talk is
there anything else that I need to know
I really struggle with small talk 321 I
tell my students 321 which is three
steps two types or the one thing so just
have that in the back your head there
are three steps to something there are
two types of something or the one thing
is so when someone's talking to you you
want to keep it fairly brief and you
want to kind of minimize that small talk
and you know you don't want to turn it
into Big Talk they'll talk to you about
something and you go the one thing about
building a personal brand is XYZ or just
X right so you go the one thing about
personal branding if I could share with
you now is the importance of being
consistent hey so good to meet you let's
take a quick selfy and then you go so
again you have that framework in your
head whereas before when people ask me
heav what's what should I do with my
communication skills I got stuck in the
Trap of oh man I've just heard you talk
there are so many things that I can tell
you I can tell you immediately now there
are eight things you probably should
start focus on in this sequence but then
now it turns into something I don't want
it to be so now I have that framework I
just think all right so in response to
this can I go down the three steps to
what they're saying the two types of
what they're saying or the one thing
about what they're saying is this and do
you think I should have some nuggets
nuggets some questions in my back pocket
that I roll out for frequently some
pre-prepared small talk things that
aren't have you seen the weather yeah
yeah yeah yeah you should and and these
are important and and you can create
your own I mean I love the what do you
do in your free time I really enjoy that
question because it opens up so many
doors to so many interesting things that
people do as opposed to them telling me
what they do for a job because we've
heard this many times before when
someone asks you what they do for a
living I'm trying to understand where
you are in the status hierarchy I love
what are you doing your free time I I
genuinely love that question and have a
list of three to four
questions just have them in your back
pocket that framework of 321 though that
allows you to get out of that small talk
in a brief manner they ask you a
question about personal branding oh
there's there's two types of personal
branding oh hey the three steps to
personal branding are or hey the one
thing about personal branding is hey
good luck so good to see you let's take
a quick selfie is there an art to having
a difficult conversation so say someone
has
been always interrupts me at
work and and know I do you know why it
happens though why because of low levels
of physical and low levels of vocal
presence if you know if I talk to you
like this and I'm going to share a
really good idea with you and um it's so
easy to interrupt this person so you
have to you have to fix that at a
foundational level you have to increase
your vocal presence you have to increase
your physical presence because it's
infinitely harder to interrupt this
version of Vin as opposed to the version
of Vin you just experienced before
that's the first thing I would say at a
foundational level that's what you want
to fix and again that's to do with
volume that's to do with hand gestures
pow feere all the things we've spoken
about and by leveling that up it's much
harder to interrupt this yeah I couldn't
interrupt this guy it's harder yeah yeah
whereas all of a sudden people aren't
aware of that and they think oh people
interrupt me just because people are
rude no no it's because you haven't
indicated that you are you're taking the
floor right now this is why I say to
people who get interrupted all the time
all right here's a simple another simple
straty
if everyone's sitting around a team
meeting stand when you're about to
deliver your point because when you
stand you now have more physical
presence so all of a sudden people won't
interrupt you as long as you're standing
because I'm still talking the biggest
objection people have to the pause is
they say oh but if I pause people
interrupt me not if you're standing if
you're standing and you pause it's
clearly a pause for effect I'm still
taking the
floor right so so there are so many
other things you could do to prevent it
from happening you can even prime the
conversation if you know know there's a
seral
interruptor sorry I do this sometimes if
there's a seral interruptor in your
environment and I was just pointing at
myself
there I don't interrupt because I want
to be a jerk sometimes I feel like oh I
want to add value and and that's I I
want to give them the Ben upit of the
doubt that's what most of them want to
do but then there's the 1% that are just
Sero interrupted I just always I always
I want to take the floor they don't
respect you they don't respect you yeah
I want that
floor
that very difficult you have to have a
private conversation with outside but to
the 99% of people who are interrupting
because they want to add value you just
need to Prime the conversation you just
need to say hey look to everyone in the
team I want to share my idea if you give
me five minutes at the end of it I would
love to ask for your input but i' would
love to share my idea completely and
holy is that okay and I just get them
all to agree and if they do but in after
I've said that I can let them say the
thing I go thanks Stephen I'm still
sharing the idea I'll come back to your
question in a moment and you have to
reclaim your land do you think you have
to mirror someone's you know you talked
about these five foundations am I meant
to mirror yours to relate and resonate
with you it's one of the fastest ways to
build rapport with someone we we learn
about it through body language I think a
lot of people understand the concept of
matching and mirroring when it comes to
body language right if you come up to
someone and you want to build rapport
quickly and they've got big body
language if you do the same then it will
help them feel more connected to you
right people rarely think about it with
their voice and that's the same thing
the years of going on stage and speaking
I've had so many people come up to me
where if imagine someone comes up to me
they're like oh Haven that was an
amazing keynote and I took that same
energy VIN on stage to go oh thank you
so much for coming up hey thank you I
appreciate it you'd freak the hell out
of them right so instead of that I match
and mirror their vocal foundations I'm
like oh hey thank you so much for coming
up I know it's a bit scary to sometimes
meet us but you know when we fart it
still smells hey thank you so much for
coming up and connecting with me the
idea is you don't stay there though M
you meet them where they are and then
you take them to where you want to go so
I'm meeting them where they are so
they're comfortable and we build rapport
and connection I'm like oh hey so good
to have you come up thank you so much
and and hey if you if you took a moment
for a second what was your favorite part
what did you really connect with when
you were talking to me so I met them
where they are and then I slowly bring
them to where I want to go and it
happens like magic where you will see
them slowly come out of their show a
little more you've got to meet them
where they are first to build that
Rapport I've heard you talk about this
thing called
Ford yes f o r d we're talking about
family occupation Recreation and dreams
and what's the context there well it's
these are the points of conversation
that I could talk about if I wanted to
engage with that person for a longer
period of time instead of just thinking
about what they do that's what I always
used to do I always us just think about
career occupation oh what do you do I
tended default to that when I was in the
keynote speaking career but then Ford is
just a wonderful acronym to go well
there's so many other things we could
talk about there's so many other things
we could talk about right I could talk
about family Recreation occupation and
your dreams and why does having a a
broader set of things to talk about
cause more resonance and connection
because that interaction feels different
to every other one okay otherwise it
always feels like occupation it's always
about
occupation I I I just love having extra
things to about to go to like the dreams
again I I love asking people that
question I love watching there's a
gentleman named Simon squip who who
who's being able to own the brand of
what is your dream right it's such a
powerful question and it causes people
to pause and think and what is my dream
it sometimes can lead to pain sometimes
lead to wonderful conversations there's
something about the depth of the
question I think as well that just like
it hits people yeah it hits people
especially with the vulnerable things
when you started saying that you were
struggling with too much
yeah there's something that changed in
me I was like oh yeah he is
human that's why Halo Buffalo is so
powerful is because and that's why I say
it requires
courage because I know that the moment
people heard me say that they they they
clench their butt cheeks they're like oh
no I don't really want to do that but
the moment you do it it changes
everything it shows I'm human shows I
struggle shows I've got things that
aren't going that well you know when we
um had the conversation on the podcast
with Vanessa about body language one of
the things that I saw in the comment
section was people pointing out that in
different cultures yes different rules
apply yes it's kind of what I was saying
earlier about being British we're a bit
more conserved yeah do you need to sort
of overlay all this advice with cultural
Nuance 100% a motivational speaker from
America coming to Australia doesn't work
well because if they they come to
Australia they're like oh get on your
feet let's start Australians are very
skeptical like those in the UK and we
kind of sit back we're like yeah no mate
we just started we're not doing that
just yet and that's why when American
speakers come to Australia they're like
oh they're so it takes them a long time
to get into it because we're so
skeptical in Australia too right I think
we we kept that as we went to Australia
from the UK and there's still that so
you've got to be sensitive to that and
before you go and speak in a certain
country I think it's very important to
go right what are the cultural norms and
expose yourself to the I've made
mistakes before right I I I've done the
ultimate mistake
I went there's a bit in my keyote where
I say I told my dad I wanted to leave
accounting and become a magician and my
dad said what the hell you want to beat
a Harry Potter right so I play right I
play a little bit with the voice and
then I went to I went to Asia and I did
the same accent no one laughed and I
went right no sensitivity there I I I
didn't realize it that well I they
didn't find it funny cuz they're like
oh yeah a was sweating bullets and then
they start to slowly realize oh he's
taking the piss oh and then the audience
turns against you I've done it wrong
many times before I've done it wrong as
many and again that's how you learn but
people don't want to learn that way
anymore they don't want to pay the price
of failure that's the only way you
learn and and so many people hate
hearing their own voice they do I
remember the first time I heard my own
voice I could believe it when I was
recording those little cassettes back in
Plymouth when I was a kid do you know
why no it's because
when you hear your own voice you're
hearing the vibrations through bone and
muscle muscle tissue you're hearing
those vibrations so they sound deeper
more resonant to you so when you hear
your voice you're like oo I sound like
Barry wide so you think you have this
deep rich voice because you're hearing
it through a different medium whereas
when you open your mouth and you speak
to another person the medium is not
muscle and bone it's through
air so it's less dense so it sounds
higher pitched so one of the main
reasons people hate it immediately is
they go oh what why do I sound why do I
sound like this whereas in actual
reality it's because it's going through
a different medium one's going through
bone and one's going through muscle the
other one's going through the air so
this is why I thought I could sing and
then when I recorded singing and I
played it back I was Dreadful made the
same error I couldn't believe it I
thought something was wrong with the
recorder yes and that's what happens to
everybody and it's also the same thing
with why why people hate themselves on
camera it's because you see yourself in
the mirror and you see yourself the way
you see yourself in then you see
yourself in camera and it's flipped the
other way and you go whoa why I don't
look like that why does this part of my
face look different well it's because
that's what everybody else sees but
you've been looking at yourself in the
mirror your entire life you've been
listening to yourself through bone
tissue and muscle your entire life so
how do I overcome that
desensitization you have to listen to
yourself do you still care about your
voice do you still listen to it yeah you
don't care anymore you love the sound of
your voice now don't you I wouldn't say
I love it but I'm I'm so used to it it
doesn't make me cringe anymore because
you've desensitized yeah because you're
now hearing what other people hear and
you and again that's why you should
record videos of yourself and I still
think that record and review thing if
that's the one thing you do after this
it's going of if you pick three things
to change after you do that process it's
going to radically shift the way you
come across when you
speak you imagine you are only three
changes away from completely
transforming that's all that it takes
I've seen my students do this time and
time and time again and and I I I wish I
was able to show you in these video
examples when all of a sudden they just
shift more Melody more volume larger
body language it's a different human
being
it's crazy and again I'm not saying be
that all the time it's now you having
gears right it's like a car most people
just one gear and I'll bring that one
gear that one communication style to
every
interaction why is it not effective do
you think this whole introvert extrovert
thing is
[__] I asked my vocal teacher this
and I
said like what's the what what's what's
the difference and and she asked me this
question in return where she said that
pianist you saw at the concert I took
you to
if they're an extrovert how would it be
different when they play the piano and
if they're an introvert how would it be
different I said I have no idea she goes
it's the same thing just you're playing
your instrument the only difference
between introvert and extrovert is an
introvert they lose energy from social
interaction so you have to be highly
digant you have to be highly diligent
when you're expending that energy and
you're playing the music for people you
have to be extremely diligent whereas
those who are extroverts they can play
it for a longer ex extended period of
time so again for an extrovert it's just
about choosing when you do that choosing
when you play beautifully as opposed to
oh I'm I'm an introvert I I should just
talk like this then because I'm an
introvert it's like what
really social anxiety some people do
have like severe social anxiety um so
many of the think they might have
clicked on this conversation because
they're interested but they have no
belief in themselves that they could
ever change because they literally their
body goes through almost like a panic
attack when they're in these social
situations what you say to those people
it's the slow process of
desensitization it really is I I I I
find it exposure therapy yes I find it
and I was that I mean the whole reason
the only reason I learned magic in my
life was because I felt like I had no
value and I had to go learn a whole
craft to have value so that I could be
amazing because by myself I'm not
amazing that's why I learned magic
because I felt like I wasn't amazing and
then when I had this amazing thing then
everyone thought I was amazing I was
like oh I'm amazing now but then one day
I forgot my cards at school and then all
of a sudden I went home and I had some
social interactions I went oh I'm not
amazing what I'm trying to say here is
instead of picking something like magic
and then using that as a crutch because
I did and then in every conversation
with you I would have to do magic with
you first before I do anything else
because if I didn't I I don't feel
confident now I feel like I'm I have
nothing to give so to
me this this is why I push communication
skills so much let me share with you a
story let me let me give you a little
bit of context when I was 13 I went to
year Camp freshman Camp I had a really
good friend at the time named Kevin I
saw him playing ukulele around the fire
camp and for the first time I saw Kevin
talk to girls me and Kevin bonded over
the fact we would never talk to girls
because I couldn't do it he couldn't do
it and we bonded over that that night he
broke that that trust cuz he was talking
to girls he was playing as ukulele and
he was amazing and I felt so pissed offu
at him I ran back to the cabin and the
next morning I went the only friend I
have here is now talking to girls and
and then the next morning I see him at
the breakfast table by himself I was
like what this guy was the bee's knees
last night and now he's by himself what
the
freak and I didn't understand that for
the life of me and then I experienced in
my life with cards when I have a packet
of cards I could talk to anyone but then
when I didn't have my cards I couldn't
talk to anyone I had crippling social
anxiety and I went a this is what we
call contextual
confidence oh interesting so in certain
contexts I'm more confident even the
people you're talking about who are
anxious there are certain contexts where
they are contextually confident and they
light up there's a certain topic that if
someone talks about it that they might
think of themselves of being a bad
communicator but because that topic
comes up they now are a great
communicator right so then the idea of
contextual confidence led me to really
working out that communication skills is
such a critical skill set why because if
I master the use of my voice if I master
the use of of my body language I master
of the ability to story tell can I leave
my voice at home can I leave my body
language up can I leave my ability to
story tell and connect with other people
at home you can't now you have this
ability that follows you everywhere you
go meaning you become contextually
confident in every single area of your
life do you get tired when you go home
yes
100% I can imagine cuz you are high
energy because I choose to give yeah I I
I'm I'm I'm conscious choosing to do
that and there are times when I choose
not to so that in the times where I do
give I can give you the best version of
me I didn't leave my our interview today
was 4 p.m. right M I didn't leave the
hotel room at all all day why because
I'm conserving that energy for you okay
thank you yeah you're welcome and to the
point where my videographer was asking
me he said hey dude are you all right
and then he goes look just just and he
was I love him he so concerned about me
he goes just just wave to me outside of
your windows I can see you I open the
door oh this door opens and I waved I
was like hey he's like oh cool cool cool
on your swe cuz I didn't I didn't leave
my hotel room right because I was
conscious of that crazy I was just
conscious apprciate itk that's all right
that's all right I was already jet
lagged I didn't want to I didn't want to
be [__] no but I can relate as well cuz
I I I sometimes wonder if energy is
finite or if I do this podcast and then
I you know I'll go in go into the real
world and I just I don't want to I'm so
I'm depleted yeah and I I always
wondered if that's something I could do
something about if I just need to Buck
up and just you know try there's only so
much of that you can do and it is a
limited it it is a limited Supply that's
why it's so beautiful when someone is
willing to sit and be present and play
their instrument with you mhm because
it's it's it's a conscious
thing whereas I used to approach every
interaction with oh bring the bare
minimum and I I didn't Val I didn't
understand that that exchange of energy
you get so much more out of life when
you give more not just with money and
time but with your energy yes there's a
transaction here that's happening that's
invisible and and I treat like it's so
weird and it doesn't happen because I
have a lot of followers lots of people
don't know who I am on the way here I
got upgraded on my flight because I just
built connection with the person and I
thought you know what I'm just this
person's probably had a lot of boring
conversations I'm just going to make him
laugh so I just spoke make him laugh and
they're like
oh and and it happens I feel like I just
found this cheat code in life where I
keep my energy when I need it and when
there are times I need to I'll I'll use
the energy like a currency yeah it is
and I'm I'm not I was I didn't think
they were going to give me an upgrade
but I did they did which was so cool
right and they felt good too you
probably hypnotize them or something
yeah I don't know maybe magistry yeah
it's it's it's an energy bribe I going
back to what you said earlier you said
that you're at a phase in your life
where you're struggling with
the thought that when is enough enough
yeah it's been really hard yeah
I mean are you feeling this because as
you build your personal brand as this
podcast reaches more people as it is
already as it gets bigger and bigger and
bigger more and more and more
opportunities come along the momentum
gets faster and faster and faster it
becomes harder now to steer what is that
struggle though so struggle implies that
there's two forces pulling in two
different direction so describe both
forces to
me there's a part of me that is very
ambitious but my identity now has been
upgraded I'm not just entrepreneur I'm
dad and there's a pull between the
entrepreneur in me and the dad in me and
it's mutually exclusive yes and they're
both so strong and I've never felt it
this strong my daughter's about to turn
one my son's seven turning eight and
these forces now Stephen are so strong
because my father was so good in my life
such a pillar in my life
that I used to be a away a 180 days a
year right I missed out on so much of my
son's
upbringing and I I don't want to make
that same mistake and again I didn't
realize there was this I didn't see the
correlation between success and
sacrifice I I I drank the Kool-Aid I
thought you can have everything you can
have everything and and I I haven't
found a way to do that because the more
success I have there sacrifice that
comes right behind
it you know and and I've just am
learning what is the amount of sacrifice
that I'm willing to
to to have and it's it's so hard because
as as I value being like the more I
value being a father the the bigger
these opportunities that come along as
well and then you're like ah so it's
this constant push and pull this and how
are you navigating that in terms of have
you got a framework for the decision or
a framework to know what you should say
yes to and what you shouldn't every 6
months I do a process called recalibrate
and recalibrate is a process I came up
with with one of my best friends and
myself Ali terai he's one of the
founders of a company called future golf
in
Australia and we go away for about half
a week to a week and we get permission
from our families and we review and
reflect on the last six months and how
we've lived and the decisions we've made
and we go through memorable moments and
we go through down moments and because
we both Journal we can reflect back
quite accurately on oh what made us feel
[__] in the last six months and then we
save ourselves from doing those same
actions in the next six months and then
the things that made us feel good we go
all right those go in more category so
now how can we do more of those things
that made us feel good so the way I
protect myself from that is by doing
this process but even then the push and
pull is it's always ever present that
struggle is always there what is your
ambition I told you about my two kids
right I I had very selfish Ambitions
early on in my career very ambitious uh
my own which was to make a lot of money
um you know to to be able to do do all
these different things that I wanted to
do in the material world and all of that
and then my son was born and he was born
in 2017 and we were in America and we
were firsttime parents and
we we didn't know what to expect we
didn't have many friends while we were
here and we were super isolated so we
didn't we didn't have other kids around
my son
and and I still remember this trip I
went on to Japan with my cousin and her
husband they're both
psychologists and we're one week into
that trip
and I remember them saying hey we we
have something really important we need
to talk to you about and and I was like
what the hell guys why are you being all
serious what's going on and and and they
sat my wife and I down and they
said we we we we think Xander is
autistic my
son and at that point because I I
thought it was because of me being away
I thought it was because oh because I'm
away so much that that you you didn't
want to connect with me and
and they confirmed that they said all
these things eye contact um maybe he
won't be verbal
maybe it was one of the most difficult
periods of my
life and then my wife leaned over and
she said do you think it's by chance
that one of the greatest things that
people who are on the Spectrum struggle
with you're really great at do you think
it's by chance that he came to us and at
that point I was not teaching
communication skills really yet
and it's almost a very selfish
goal but the reason I teach it is
because I think you know that one of the
main things that happens when you teach
something Stephen is that you become
better at it you deepen your knowledge
in that Arena you get better at teaching
it you get better and better and better
at teaching it a big part of my ambition
in this chapter of life is to get so
good at teaching this that I can help my
son you know now my
son
talks my son
gives me eye contact just last year my
son did the most amazing thing where I
was teaching a class filled with
hundreds of
people and he just walks up on stage
grabs the mic and talks and asks me if I
God Can I have this book Dad I'm like
yes of course you can he did something
that scared every single person in that
room and we didn't push him to do it and
how do we make that happen he came to
that theater with me 30 40 times first
times you stand outside the theater you
just listen to dad's voice
then you step you stand you open the
door you stand in there and you can kind
of see Dad from a f too much okay that's
all right you got overwhelmed step back
out and just step by step by step by
step my son was able to gradually walk
on stage and do the thing he did and I
just went wow this is so cool because me
teaching this I've understood now wow I
can break it down to micro steps for
you
and selfishly that's that's such a big
part of my ambition right now is how can
I get so good at teaching this that I I
can help my son overcome one of his most
challenging difficulties we experienced
in this
life incredibly beautiful your father as
well yeah was and is an incredible
person you were telling me a little bit
about him before but I also did some
research on the life he lived and what
he went through and his brothers and his
family and it was incredible and he is
now a monk and my mom tell me about that
confers
ation yeah Mom and Dad before I moved to
the US
they yeah they we sat around a kitchen
table like this and and they said hey
we've got a big bombshell to drop on you
and and and we want to become monks
right we've been we've been playing the
money game we've been playing the status
game and and we we're suffering we're
suffering and we've been following
Buddhism for years and we find so much
peace in in this pathway he said we're
suffering yeah how we would buy a new
car because one of my uncles bought a
new car we'd buy a new house in a
two-story house because one of my uncles
bought a two-story house and I watched
my dad play this and I saw it and it got
to the point where we got a jet ski and
we didn't have a boat license so what
are we doing with the jet ski and it
became this weird moment where I was
like oh dad like can we take it out oh
no we can't because none of us have a
boat license so dad had his own
suffering in his life he went from
nothing in Australia to building
incredible businesses with his brothers
right they started South Australia one
of South Australia's first grocery
stores and then they went to buy
pharmacies and restaurants and takeaway
stores they did commercial property
really residential property so they they
built all this up and they'd fled from
they fled from war from war so they
started from nothing in Australia and I
watched them do that right the most
memorable thing that led me to this path
of Entrepreneurship that I am in now is
I saw
them we would have three bedrooms in the
house one was for sleeping the other two
were sewing rooms and then after you
sewing all day you go outside you peel
onions and you get paid 50 cents per bag
of 20 K bag of onion that you peel you
get 50 cents for that whole bag peeled
and then after that every part of our
garden was dug up to grow vegetables
that we will sell for 10 cents a bunch
at the local grocery store and then
after that as well they would also cook
these delicious things in vietnames got
one and then we would cook them and sell
them for 50 cents each inside the house
right that's what we all do so I watch
them do that to then buying a farm to
then realizing that oh the farmer sell
to an agent the agent sells it to
grocery stores oh we should save up
money saved up for years bought a
grocery store so then we became the farm
we became the grocery store right and I
just watched them do all of these
different things and and there were
years where Dad was really happy but
then there were years that started to
come where he find I saw him really
empty and you're just going through the
motions of doing things because I'm know
Uncle did it so I guess I'll do it too
and I and that's what he meant by
suffering is that they were playing that
money game and they were playing that
status game and they felt
there was an exhaustion to it when they
when we had that conversation there was
such exhaustion
there and I remember feeling it which
what made me think cuz because on my
head I was thinking oh you just want to
get a divorce but but when I when I felt
the exhaustion of it I went oh are you
exhausted of each other or I went wow oh
wow there there's a game you're playing
and you're so exhausted and you found
freedom because you're so excited for
this other thing and this other thing
was becoming a monk becoming a monk
renouncing they renounced everything
renounced everything yeah and then I
became the person that then had to give
some of the things that they
needed I think I think one of the
greatest gifts that my parents have
given me is not giving me an
inheritance it's one of the greatest
things at the time I want to negotiate
that so bad I was like 20% could we just
can we just split it a little bit but
one of the greatest things they did cuz
that didn't kill my drive was it a lot
of stuff they had yeah they had money
Millions yeah and then I and then then I
almost had then there's a part where and
again to be completely truthful with the
journey then I was like oh well then now
now I need to help you and I I had to
because they had a vision and I wanted
to help them so I bought him a block of
land to help them build a meditation
center and my dad was like no no no I
just want the like just land and then he
had a shed there and then he said just
whoever comes to help us put the shed
together that will be the meditation
center it doesn't need to be anything
more than that and then he had all these
people in the Vietnamese Community come
along and but you paid around the back
no I didn't I didn't pay them I didn't
pay them I didn't pay them I had to pay
some diggers to come in to actually you
know move the land in certain places but
I was happy to do that and then I saw
them build this beautiful little spot
where it was filled with Gardens with
vegetables and self-sufficient now and
people in the Vietnamese culture come to
them because a lot of them are suffering
from PTSD but they don't acknowledge it
where is this place in South Australia
we got a little block of land and um
yeah it's called nmai and then they they
just have people go there vietnames
because my dad doesn't speak English
that well so he's got a bunch of people
from the Vietnamese culture coming to
who are suffering from the war and some
of them have had children pass away and
all these and then I see my dad bring
someone who the craziest situation when
I saw him have someone lose a child one
of the greatest pains I think a human
could ever know and then walk in in
tears dad speak to them hold their hand
went for a walk and then just took their
hands they started gardening and I
watched this ridiculous thing happened
in front of me where then he took them
gardening they plant did a few things
they picked some fruit they went in the
kitchen they cooked and then he just
said to them at the end of the day you
did something amazing today you planted
some fruit for those who you may not be
around for but when this tree grows
you've planted some beautiful fruit for
someone to eat you've done something
really good today and I watched him
almost heal someone without saying much
at all because and I said Dad how did
you do that he goes because I just took
them out of their head just for a moment
into their hands to give them a moment
of quiet people people know how to get
out of their own troubles sometimes they
just need a place
to need some shade is is he happy I've
never seen him happier where and I was
the biggest skeptic cuz I thought surely
there's going to be a crack and I was
playing that skeptic I think I feel kind
of bad playing that skeptic because for
a period of my life I was like is this
real like is it real or is this a
phase and as far as I can see it's it's
real get on him and and he's so free
though is cu he wakes up every
morning there's he has this incredible
he's no attachments he's he's he's
detached from everything what has he
told you about the endless pursuit of
Mo has he given you any cautionary sort
of warnings about yeah yeah it's it's
it's it's what brought me back home from
the
US it's what brought me back you told me
a quote which I loved before we started
recording what was that quote while I
was in in the US he he doesn't say much
my dad right growing up he he he
supported through action a lot and I
remember when my mom called me and said
hey I your dad wants to talk to you and
this is when I was in the US and I was
oh man I was so KN deep in the keynote
speaking career I was on the road 200
days a year and I was doing 80 speeches
it was it was such a addictive career
because so financially rewarding so
fulfilling as well and I loved
performing and it was so amazing and I I
couldn't get out of that world but I was
so lonely here in the US I was so
miserable but again again because you
get paid more you go oh you one more
year one more year oh honey it's okay
we'll just do one more year and my dad
called and he just said a sentence that
brought me home and the sentence was and
and I I'll preface this because he knows
I love medieval movies I love I love
this kind of movies and he said a king
that knows the limits to his desires
will rule a lifetime
and I'd lost track of my desires at that
point what does he mean by that you'll
notice kings that want to continually
conquer I want to conquer more I want to
conquer more land and and gradually what
happens to them is they die they get
killed whereas the kings that know the
limits to their desires they rule an
entire
lifetime and that's what I really
connected with and that's what brought
me back and I walked away from a
speaking career to go back to south
Australia Adelaide I remember my agents
in Australia said can't you at least
come back to Melbourne and Sydney you're
going to Adelaide and and to me because
I wanted
[Music]
to the pendulum had swung so far one
way that I reacted in that way and swung
so back far the other way and I learned
a lot going back because a lot of the
beliefs that I had weren't real I
believe that I had to be here in
Southern California to have this
business that I wanted to build to
become the person you thought to become
I I had that belief and that belief
wasn't real is there a voice inside you
that goes God you could do it bigger
100% it's there go to New York 100% it's
there but my my dad's voice is there
though my dad's voice is also there
which I'm grateful for because I made
the mistake with my son already Stephen
I was a away so much I was away so much
I don't want to make the same mistake
with him
ongoing I wanted to
recalibrate because here's what would
normally happen to
me I would always achieve the goals of a
previous version of me and then go oh
I'm unhappy oh it's because you achieved
the goals of a previous version of
you I wasn't aligning the things that I
was doing with the present version of me
because I never took the time to sit
still that's why the recalibrate trips
that I going with my best mate Ali are
so vital to me because I'm learning how
to take action that's more aligned with
the present version of
me I've got a previous version of you
here what was um what was what was that
kid like at that age starving for
attention starving for
attention
and desperate felt really lonely because
I moved school so many times most people
go to university with a group of strong
friends I went to five schools what did
he need to hear if you could teleport
back and you could have a a whisper in
his ear and just give him a couple of
sentences at that moment in time what
would you say to
him I tell him not to be so attached to
who you currently
are stop being so attached to this
identity that you've
created not only are other people going
to try to keep you inside this you're
the one that's keeping you inside this
you keep blaming other people saying
that oh everyone's stopping me from
becoming the person that I am no no no
no lesson vin it's
you you're the one stopping you from
becoming the future version of
you and the simple word would just
be just let
go let go of that present version of you
I hung on to
it why do we hang on
to it
as much as my reality sucked in that
moment I felt
safe familiar familiar and and and and
it felt like home because what is home
home is just a familiar and the coolest
thing about traveling Stephen is that as
I traveled more before home I would tell
you oh home to me is Salsbury
downs and then as I started to travel
around my own City I oh no home is
adelade then I started to go camping oh
home is South Australia as I traveled oh
home is Australia then I started to live
in America oh home is America and then
home gradually becomes the
world there's this beautiful concept
where again I just kind of home to me is
just a familiar and at that point my
home was Salsbury
Downs my home with this such limited
version of
Vin and I was too afraid to venture out
of
Salsbury then what's the most important
thing that we haven't spoken about
that we should have spoken about today
as it relates to the work that you do
and if you had to guess what the person
at home that question that they have
that I didn't ask that they're screaming
at the screen what it might be that we
didn't cover what do you think it would
be one big thing
is so I've taught you all these
different things you can do with your
voice all these different things you can
play with your body
language and the big thing they're
screaming at home is they they're
screaming out yeah but if I did that
tonight with my partner they're going to
freak out they're going to go what the
hell is that what what are you what are
you doing right so all of a sudden now
there needs to be a process for that so
Vin what is the process for that thank
you for asking and the process for that
is you have to understand first of all I
love this concept of neutral ears and a
neutral ear is someone who has no
preconceived idea of how you sound or
how you communicate and there are
neutral ears everywhere before I me well
you watch my content but if I go out
today and I go to get some gas or I go
to the grocery store there are neutral
ears there they don't have any
preconceived ideas of how I sound how I
talk with my hands whether or not I'm
aware of the Power Sphere or not you
could go out in those instances and try
out these new behaviors H run it on some
neutral ears I like that run it on some
neutral ears and then you can play so if
normally you speak very quietly tonight
when you go to the gas station go in
there with vibrant volume and go hey
quick question before I go in do you
have any chocolates with the peanuts
yeah yeah you do I'm going to come in
I'm coming in for them play just do it
right and just do it sometimes one look
can put you back in your mold whereas
when you do it neutral ears and when you
try new behaviors with no negative
judgment do you know what it does it
helps those behaviors stick a little bit
more yeah because it helps you feel
normal doing it and then you have a
chance now to play and be vulnerable
look for neutral ears I'd set people
kpis every single day
and every single day set yourself a kpi
maybe go to a gas station a little
further from your house and play with
your voice play with your body language
be a bigger version of you and as you do
this more and more and more you IR Out
The Kinks you'll do it you'll feel wrong
you go that's okay I'm going to try it
again oh that felt right and then you
start to finesse because the first time
someone plays the saxophone it sounds
terrible but as they play it more and
more and more and more oh they get
better and better and better and better
so new is very important okay so that's
a process then if you want your partner
to be supportive then you have to Prime
the conversation when you go home so
don't immediately come home as this
other version of you come home and and
prime it by saying look honey I've been
been very quiet with my voice my entire
life and I just feel inspired to give
you and the kids more of me so if you
see me play with my volume if you see me
play with my melody could you please
encourage me and support me on this
journey because I want to be better and
do it with me yeah oh that's beautiful I
love that yes and maybe we can do it
together all of a sudden now this shifts
the way they see the change you can do
this with your colleagues as well I love
that neutral ears then we have a closing
tradition on this podcast where the last
guest leaves a question for the next
guest not knowing who they're leaving it
for and the question that's been left
for
you what is one thing that you know to
be
true doing pauses did you see
that even though you can't prove
it that in the world we live right now
you can negotiate whatever reality you
desire
right now in my own
mind I just have that belief and that
belief has served me my entire life and
I have this voice in my head where it
says oh when you die and there's a
greater being they're going to go oh
you're wrong you're wrong in telling
people that you can negotiate whatever
reality you desire it's not true let's
say that happens and then I meet the
Creator and he says that to me I'd still
be glad I lived my life in that
way I'd still be glad I lived my life in
that exact
way I mean gosh yeah it's a much more
productive
optimistic effective way to live even if
you're wrong even if I'm wrong yeah
because I believe there are useful
beliefs and then there were useless
beliefs I used to carry so many useless
beliefs Stephen so many and now I just
choose to believe in beliefs that
support me in being able to create the
reality that I desire is that even if
I'm wrong I still am glad I lived my
life in this way because there's a part
of my brain right now that genuinely
believes this that there'll be a day
when I will be bored with this chapter
of life and no longer want to teach
communication
skills I just hope that I have the
courage but I know that I'll be able to
live a chapter where I become a chef I
love
cooking and I know it to be true that if
I wanted that and I'm ready for that
chapter I can write a chapter where I
become a great chef
vinn thank you thank you for coming all
the way from Australia and thank you so
much for the work that you do it's so
you're so remarkably good at um making
the complex simple and I think I really
really deeply believe and this is why I
wanted to speak to you I really really
believe that there's so many people this
is interesting language I'm about to use
that are basically being unfairly
treated by the world because for
whatever reason they didn't come across
the skills the skills that you've spent
many many many years giving to people
and I just just really hope that there's
someone listening now who has had that
and I know there will be because there's
so many people in your audience and I've
seen the feedback that you get who's had
the trajectory of their life altered in
relationships professions the job the
promotion uh family communication where
whatever it might be because of you and
I know because I've seen the comments I
know that there are many many many many
many many thousands and thousands and
thousands of people who have said
exactly that so on behalf of all of them
but also on behalf of the people that
have even one tool out of what you said
today one place to start on that Journey
towards a different tomorrow trajectory
life thank you thank you for the work
that you do I know it must get [__]
boring after a while doing the same
thing saying the same same stuff being
asked the same questions getting the
same DMS but it is so important it
really is you know because as as you
experienced as a Young Man the way that
you can feel the the isolation the
loneliness the disconnect the
the feelings that you're different and
that you're missing something can really
drive you down a very miserable
despairing path in life and Someone Like
You helps people turn the lights on and
shows them a better way so thank you on
behalf of all those people thank you
Stephen and there's a word that I call
my students maybe we can end on this and
the word I call them is luminaries
because I I I I call all of my programs
stage right stage and they go why do you
call it stage and I go oh it's stage
because of Shakespeare's quote all of
life is a stage all the world's a stage
and to me it's true because when I wake
up in the morning the first stage I step
on is the stage of fatherhood and how I
show up on that stage matters and then
the second stage I work on step on to is
the stage of being a husband right my
wife loves it when I make her the coffee
even though it's ter terrible she likes
it when I make it right and then there's
something there but then then the next
stage I walk into is I walk into the
studio and I'm stepping on the stage as
a teacher I'm teaching people now and in
this life you will step onto many
different stages playing many different
roles and if you learn how to
communicate and play your instrument you
can show up as your best and then I call
them luminary why double meaning word
part of it means actor or actress but
it's not about that it's about you're a
source of light so when you learn how to
use your instrument and you show up on
stage on the with the role that you're
playing play songs of Love kindness and
compassion play songs that spread
goodness right if you feel good while
you're listening to this it's because of
the way potentially I played my
instrument and I hope that you'll step
onto your stage and the role that you're
currently playing and play with your
instrument as a luminary to spread more
love carness and
compassion amen yeah thank you thank
you the hardest conversations are often
the ones we avoid but what if you had
the right question to start them with
every single guest on the DI of SE has
left behind a question in this diary and
it's a question designed to challenge to
connect and to go deeper with the next
guest and these are all the questions
that I have here in my hand on one side
you've got the question that was asked
the name of the person who wrote it and
on the other side if you scan that you
can watch the person who came after who
answered it 51 questions split across
three different levels the warm-up level
the openup level and the Deep level so
you decide how deep the conversation
goes and people play these conversation
cards in boardrooms at work in bedrooms
alone at night and on first dates and
everywhere in between I'll put a link to
the conversation cards in the
description below and you can get yours
at the diary.com this has always blown
my mind a little bit 53% of you that
listen to the show regularly haven't yet
subscribed to the show so could I ask
you for a favor if you like the show and
you like what we do here and you want to
support us the free simple way that you
can do just that is by hitting the
Subscribe button and my commitment to
you is if you do that then I'll do
everything in my power me and my team to
make sure that this show is better for
you every single week we'll listen to
your feedback we'll find the guest that
you want me to speak to and we'll
continue to do what we do thank you so
much
[Music]